Title: IBM How do I find error logs on my unix system? - United States

Text:
error logs unix TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 How do I find error logs on my unix system? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
How do I find error logs on my unix system? Error messages of LSF servers are logged in either the syslog(3) or specified files. This is determined by the LSF_LOGDIR definition in the lsf.conf file. 

If you configure LSF to log daemon messages using syslog, the destination file is determined by the syslog configuration. On most systems, you can find out which file the LSF messages are logged in with the command:

grep daemon /etc/syslog.conf 

 Once you have found the syslog file, you can select the LSF error messages with the command:

egrep 'lim|res|batchd' syslog_file 

 Look at the /etc/syslog.conf file and the manual page for syslog or syslogd for help in finding the system logs.

When searching for log messages from LSF servers, you are more likely to find them on the remote machine where LSF put the task than on your local machine where the command was given.

LIM problems are usually logged on the master host. Run lsid to find the master host, and check syslog or the lim.log.hostname file on the master host. The res.log.hostname file contains messages about RES problems, execution problems and setup problems for LSF. Most problems with interactive applications are logged in the remote machine's log files.

Errors from LSF Batch are logged either in the mbatchd.log.hostname file on the master host, or the sbatchd.log.hostname file on the execution host. The bjobs or bhist command tells you the execution host for a specific job.

Most LSF log messages include the name of an internal LSF function to help the developers locate problems. Many error messages can be generated in more than one place, so it is important to report the entire error message when you ask for technical support.

 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition IBM Spectrum Computing IBM Spectrum LSF