Title: IBM What permissions are needed when installing LSF on Windows - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What permissions are needed when installing LSF on Windows and How? 

ANSWER
The necessary permissions that is required when installing LSF on Windows are listed as follows:
1. Both read and write permission of the installing folder is required for the installer when installing. 

 * Note: It is needed since he/she will create lsf.conf and ego.conf for the Windows client in that folder, and then update them. If the permission is not correct, an error window will pop up. 


2. LSF installer needs to grand "Read and Execute" permission for cmd.exe to all the users.  * Note: To run those batch jobs, LSF needs a method to start those batch jobs on the execution host. For Unix execution hosts, LSF will start the batch jobs through Unix shell (/bin/sh for example). For Windows execution hosts, LSF uses cmd.exe to start the batch jobs. Therefore, to make sure every user can successfully run jobs, the installer needs to grand correct permission for cmd.exe to all the users. 


3. After the installation, please make sure that the primary LSF admin has read&write&execute permissions of LSF directory. 4. Please confirm the primary LSF admin has the following permissions when managing the cluster on windows (as is documented): "Act as part of the operating system", "Debug programs", "Replace a process level token", "Log on as a service" and "Adjust memory quotas for a process". 

 * Note: The primary LSF admin must belong to the Local Administrators group on each Windows host. To achieve these permissions, you can open gpedit.msc on Windows, and then navigate to 'local compute policy' - 'compute configuration' - 'windows setting' - 'security setting' - 'local policies' - 'user right assignment'. You will find those five permissions from the right panel. Then, click it and 'add user or group' into it, like "DomainName\ObjectName (example: Domain1\User1)".





Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition IBM Spectrum Computing IBM Spectrum LSF