Title: IBM WebSphere Application Server -- Deployment Manager Monitoring Policy - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This document clarifies the monitoring policy settings available in WebSphere Application Server ND. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The ping interval and ping timeout values work together; however, the way that they work together is not completely clear in the documentation. 

Ping Interval

The Ping Interval specifies the frequency of communication attempts between the parent process, such as the node agent, and the process it has spawned, such as an application server. You may adjust this value based on your requirements for restarting failed servers. Decreasing the value detects failures sooner; increasing the value reduces the frequency of pings, reducing system overhead.

Ping Timeout

When a parent process is spawning a child process, such as when a process manager spawns a server, the parent process pings the child process to see whether the child was spawned successfully. This value specifies the number of seconds that the parent process should wait (after pinging the child process) before assuming that the child process failed.

How the Interval and Timeout Work Together

The Ping Interval defines time between one ping and the next. Ping Timeout is not just for a spawning process; it also defines how long to wait before assuming the process may be down after each ping.

The Ping Interval is really the time to wait after a successful ping. Consider ping1 is sent. The default settings say wait for 300 seconds before assuming the server is down. ping2 will not be sent until a response from ping1 is received. Ping2 will be sent out 60 seconds after the response of ping1. 

This picture shows the configuration screen where the 3 values discussed can be modified. [/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1013787&aid=1] [/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1013787&aid=1]

 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Operating System IBM i 7.2 Operating System IBM i 7.1 Operating System IBM i 6.1 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 481631701