Title: IBM Unexpected or Undocumented Reason Code in Message - United States

Text:
MESSAGES; MSGCPPC055; MSGCPF2754; RCB057011; RCB057012; RCB057013; RCB057014; RCB057015; RCB057016; RCC420000; RCC9E2A6E3; MSGCPI591D; RCC9E21010 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This document provides information about unexpected or undocumented iSCSI-related message reason codes. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
This topic documents iSCSI-related message reason codes that are not currently documented in the corresponding operating system's message text. If you receive an unexpected or undocumented reason code in a message, use the following sections for more information. 

Message CPPC055: An iSCSI failure occurred. 

Reason Code Description B057011 An iSCSI login through the specified network server host adapter (NWSH) was attempted. Neither the target (IBM System i iSCSI HBA) nor the initiator (IBM xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA) iSCSI qualified names (IQNs) are known to the operating system's logical partition, so the login was refused. This could be caused by the following:

o Manually powering on the xSeries or blade server when the associated network server description (NWSD) is not in the VARIED ON state. 

o When using manual boot parameter delivery, the target or initiator IQNs or TCP/IP addresses were misconfigured on the xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA BIOS configuration screens. 

o When using manual boot parameter delivery, the initiator IQNs or TCP/IP addresses were misconfigured in the remote system configuration object associated with the NWSD.

When using manual boot parameter delivery, ensure that the target and initiator IQNs and TCP/IP addresses are correctly entered in the xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA BIOS configuration screens and the remote system configuration object associated with the NWSD. B057012 When using manual boot parameter delivery, an iSCSI log-in through the specified network server host adapter (NWSH) was attempted. The target (System i iSCSI HBA) iSCSI qualified name (IQN) was known to the operating system's partition; however, the initiator (xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA) IQN was unknown, so the log-in was refused. This may be caused by the following:

o A misconfigured initiator IQN in the remote system configuration object associated with the network server description (NWSD) when using the manual addressing mode.

o A misconfigured initiator IQN in the xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA BIOS configuration screens.

Ensure that the target and initiator IQNs and TCP/IP addresses are correctly entered in the xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA BIOS configuration screens and the remote system configuration object associated with the NWSD. B057013 When using manual boot parameter delivery, an iSCSI log-in through the specified network server host adapter (NWSH) was attempted. The target (System i iSCSI HBA) iSCSI qualified name (IQN) was unknown to the operating system's partition; however, the initiator (xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA) IQN was known, so the log-in was refused. This may be caused by the following: 

o A misconfigured target IQN in the xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA BIOS configuration screens. 

Ensure that the target IQNs and TCP/IP addresses are correctly entered in the xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA BIOS configuration screens. B057014 An iSCSI log-in through the specified network server host adapter (NWSH) was attempted. Both the target (System i iSCSI HBA) iSCSI qualified name (IQN) and initiator (xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA) IQN were known to the operating system's partition; however, they belong to different network server descriptions (NWSDs) on the partition, so the log-in was refused (one of the NWSDs involved was using manual boot parameter delivery). This may be caused by the following:

o Misconfigured target or initiator TCP/IP addresses or IQNs on the xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA BIOS configurations screens. 

o Misconfigured initiator TCP/IP addresses or IQNs in the remote system configuration object associated with the NWSD. 

Ensure that the target and initiator IQNs and TCP/IP addresses are correctly entered in the xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA BIOS configuration screens and the remote system configuration object associated with the NWSD. B057015 When using manual boot parameter delivery, an iSCSI log-in through the specified network server host adapter (NWSH) was attempted. The specified NWSH is not specified as a valid storage path in the specified network server description (NWSD), so the login was refused.

Ensure that the target (System i iSCSI HBA) TCP/IP address for a valid NWSH associated with the NWSD object is entered in the xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA BIOS configuration screens, or add the NWSH over which the failing login was occurring to the NWSD object as a valid storage path. B057016 An iSCSI log-in through the specified network server host adapter (NWSH) to the specified network server description (NWSD) was refused because the initiator (xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA) refused required negotiated parameters.

Ensure that the initiator iSCSI HBA is set properly to use DataDigest and HeaderDigest for all iSCSI connections. It is likely that the initiator iSCSI HBA is at a previous level. B05701A An iSCSI digest error was detected by the target (System i iSCSI HBA) during operation. This may be caused by the following:

o An xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA hardware failure
o A target (System i iSCSI HBA) hardware failure
o A router corrupting the TCP traffic for the iSCSI connection. B05701B An iSCSI connection error was detected by the target (System i iSCSI HBA) during operation. This may be caused by the following:

o An xSeries or blade iSCSI HBA hardware failure
o A target (System i iSCSI HBA) hardware failure C420000 The IBM Director connection to the service processor has been refused.

RSA II and Management Module service processors only allow one IBM Director Server to be connected at a time. This reason code usually occurs when another IBM Director Server application that is running on a different server has ownership of the IBM Director port on the service processor, which prevents the IBM Director Server from connecting to the service processor.

For additional troubleshooting information, refer to the following Rochester Support Center knowledgebase document:

New, Service Processor Connection Refused: 

This reason code can also be caused if the service processor is refusing the connection for other reasons; however, this is rare. 

Message CPF2754: Device xxxxxxxx failed. Reason Code Description C9E2A6E3 The network link failed.

Verify the link cable is connected and the switch is operational. 
Message CPI591D: Device &25 on controller &24 on line &23 failed. Reason Code Description C9E21010 The NWSH Vary On failed because the Ethernet link did not become active within the time allotted.

Verify the link cable is connected and the switch is operational.  


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Operating System IBM i 7.1 Operating System IBM i 6.1 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 409463584