Title: IBM Methods to Encrypt Saves in the IBM i - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How can I encrypt the backups in the IBM i? 

CAUSE
It is necessary to protect sensitive data once it is saved to media.

ANSWER
There are two methods to encrypt your data during the backup as follows: 

1. Hardware Encryption
This requires that your devices has the ability to encrypt, and you also need to configure the IBM Security Key Lifestyle Manager for Java platform (SKLM).

You can check if your device supports hardware encryption in document N1017856, Tape Drive Model Characteristics. [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1017856]

The SKLM works with IBM encryption-enabled tape drives in generating, protecting, storing and maintaining encryption keys that are used to encrypt information being written to and decrypt information being read from tape media. 

The SKLM server should reside in a different server than the one being saved. It is supported on AIX, Linux, HP-UX, Sun Solaris and Windows Servers.

Once the SKLM server is configured and the device is set to encrypt, all the saves done to that device are saved encrypted. . 2. Software Encryption
Starting with R610, it is possible to use software encryption with BRMS as indicated in document N1018803, Using BRMS to Encrypt Data [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1018803].

To use the software encryption function, you must have the BRMS Advanced feature (57xx-BR1 Option 2) and Encrypted Backup Enablement (57xx-SS1 Option 44) installed on the system. 

This encryption solution is hardware independent, meaning that you do not need to use an encrypting tape drive or other type of encryption device to encrypt the backup data.

To set up the environment, it is necessary to create master key, create keystore file, generate a keystore file entry, and then create a media policy that will use the environment created. Steps to perform these tasks are described in document N1018617, How to Set up Encryption Environment to Perform Software Encryption. [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1018617] 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Operating System IBM i 7.3 Operating System IBM i 7.2 Operating System IBM i 7.1 Operating System IBM i 6.1