Title: IBM Installing the Advanced Job Scheduler - United States

Text:
advanced; INSTALL; job scheduler; plug-in TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This document describes how to install the Advanced Job Scheduler prouduct and plug-in for Client Access. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
To verify that the Advanced Job Scheduler (AJS) is installed on your IBM i family of servers system, type the command Display Software Resources (DSPSFWRSC) on the command line, and look for 5761JS1 (V6R1) or 5770JS1(V7R1) in the list. Another quick way to verify that AJS is installed is to enter the command GO JS on a command line. If it is installed, you will see the AJS main menu. All new System i family systems have the Advanced Job Scheduler (AJS) preloaded, so it is not necessary to install the product. If for some reason the product is not installed, GO LICPGM Option 11 can be used to install the product. 

The Advanced Job Scheduler (AJS) is a keyed licensed program product. If you are trying to use AJS for the first time, the license key grace period might have expired.

Note: Even if the software license key has expired for AJS, you will still be able to access job schedule information. AJS will not submit jobs if the license key has expired. 

To verify the license key information, use the Work with License Information (WRKLICINF) command on a command line. Specify Option 5 for product 5761JS1 or 5770JS1 to display the license information. Scroll through the display until you find the license key expiration date. To add a license key for AJS, use Option 1 (Add license key) on the Work with License Information display.

To install the AJS plug-in in iSeries Navigator on your PC, do the following: 

1. Open iSeries Navigator, and sign on with a user that has administrative authority. 2. Right-click on My Connections, select Install Options, then select Install Plug-ins. 3. Select the server that you would like to install the AJS plug-in on. 4. If prompted, sign on with your user ID and password. 5. Place a check mark next to the Advanced Job Scheduler product, then click on Next until the installation is finished. 6. After the installation has completed, do the following:

a Restart iSeries Navigator. 
b Expand My Connections and select the system. 
c Click on Scan Now in response to the message that Windows detected a new component being installed. The Advanced Job Scheduler should appear under the Work Management container, as shown below: 

iNavigator Work Management container showing Advanced Job Scheduler Product [/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1019042&aid=1] [/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1019042&aid=1] 


Note: For migration with the plugin reporting as unsupported, for example migrations from R540 to R610/R710, if you run the following command with System i Navigator closed and reinstall the plugin, the plugin should be usable: 

cwbinplg /REMOVE=IBM.AdvJobScheduler 

This can be done for any plugin with this type of issue. 

If the above fails or the Advanced Job Scheduler cannot be found to install, you should review IBM Rochester Knowledgebase document N1010601, AJS Plug-In Not Found as a Plug-In to be Installed Using V6R1 Navigator:  


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Operating System IBM i 7.2 Operating System IBM i 7.1 Operating System IBM i 6.1 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 403319028