Title: IBM Customizing the Advanced Job Scheduler - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This document describes ways in which you can customize the Advanced Job Scheduler. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
To customize the Advanced Job Scheduler, select from the following tasks: 

 
Assign the general properties 

Specify how long to retain activity and log entries for the Advanced Job Scheduler and the period that jobs will not be allowed to run. You can specify the working days that jobs will process and whether an application is required for each scheduled job. If you have a paging product installed, you can also set up the command that will be used to send a page whenever a job completes or fails. 

Create and work with applications/job controls 

Applications are jobs that are grouped for processing. They are broader than job groups and do not necessarily process sequentially. Jobs in applications can process simultaneously, and one job does not have to wait for another to process. All jobs within the application can be worked with and can have their own set of job defaults. Job controls are the defaults assigned to a job as you add it to the job scheduler and defaults are used when the job is submitted. 

Set up a calendar 

Set up a calendar of selected days for scheduling a job or job group. This calendar can specify the dates to be used for scheduling a job, or it can be used in conjunction with other schedules. 

Set up a holiday calendar 

Set up a calendar for days that you do not want to allow processing for a job. Alternate days may be specified for each exception day, or processing can be skipped completely for that day. You can also add a holiday calendar to a scheduled job. 

Work with library lists 

Library lists are user-defined lists of libraries that are used by the Advanced Job Scheduler when a job is processing. 

Work with command variables 

A command variable (previously known as a parameter) is a variable you can store and use in jobs submitted through the Advanced Job Scheduler. Examples of command variables include the beginning of each month, a division number, a company number, and so on. 

 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Operating System IBM i 7.1 Operating System IBM i 6.1 Operating System IBM i 7.3 Operating System IBM i 7.2 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 331246044