Title: IBM Upgrading or restoring HMC Version 8 - United States

Text:
 FIX README

ABSTRACT
 Detailed instructions for restoring or upgrading the HMC to a Version 8 release by using Recovery media 

CONTENT


 * Anchor link navigation
 * Prerequisite tasks
 * Upgrade via Recovery media

 * Install via Recovery media
 * Upgrade/Install via network

The HMC V8 Recovery DVDs perform a full installation of the Hardware Management Console. You can perform installation or upgrade tasks by using the Recovery media alone, or by upgrading to or installing HMC V8 over the network. (The recovery media are not always needed for network installation.)

NOTE: For additional information, including enhancements, fixes and known issues with HMC Version 8 releases and for information on release specific upgrade instructions please review the release notes in the README on Fix Central [http://www-933.ibm.com/support/fixcentral]. 

PREREQUISITE TASKS
 1. Order the appropriate set of HMC V8 Recovery DVDs online from Fix Central [//www.ibm.com/support/fixcentral] (recommended). Alternately, you can download the ISO images for the HMC V8 Recovery package from Fix Central, and then create DVDs from these ISO images by using your favorite method to create DVDs.
 2. The HMC V8 package consists of one Recovery DVD. It is highly recommended that you obtain this media from IBM. If you wish to download the ISO images and burn your own DVDs, please make sure high-quality, single-layer, DVD-R media is used. Do not use DVD+R or DVD-RW.
 3. Review the following notes carefully:
    Notes:
     1. Because the HMC is a closed system, you cannot download the ISO file onto the HMC. There are no utilities available to burn DVD media on the HMC.
     2. The size of these ISO file may be greater than 1 Gigabyte. If you are downloading the ISO files to a server, please make sure that the operating system can handle files of this size. For UNIX systems, use the ulimit command to check the file size limit, and then change it, if necessary. Do not use the browser on the HMC to download the file onto the HMC. The download and save functions on the HMC's browser are disabled.
     3. You must perform a Save Upgrade Data task to preserve information on the HMC before upgrading to HMC V8. There is no Corrective Service to update the HMC to HMC V8 from any Version lower than HMC V8. You must upgrade immediately after the Save Upgrade Data task. If you restart the HMC again without doing the upgrade, you will need to log in and run the Save Upgrade Data task again, before you perform the Upgrade.
    
    

UPGRADE THE HMC TO HMC V8 VIA RECOVERY MEDIA
Before you begin the upgrade task, read and follow the instructions in the Prerequisite tasks section.

Follow these steps at the HMC interface to upgrade your HMC by means of the Recovery DVDs.

 1.  Select HMC Management.
 2.  Select Save Upgrade Data.
 3.  Select media type USB flash drive, then click Next.
 4.  Click Finish.
 5.  Wait for the Save Upgrade Data task to complete. If the task fails, contact your next level of support before proceeding. Note: The Save Upgrade Data will be saved to the hard drive on the HMC as well as the USB flash drive. The Save Upgrade Data on the media is used only to recover from an unexpected error under the direction of support personnel.
     
     
 6.  Once the Save Upgrade Data task is successful, remove the USB flash drive, insert the V8 Recovery DVD into the DVD-RAM drive, and then select Shutdown or Restart.
 7.  Select Restart and click OK.
 8.  Note: If the HMC fails to restart from optical drive, the boot manager may need to be called (in other words, press F12 during the boot process) in order to get the HMC to boot from the optical drive.
 9.  The HMC reads the media in the DVD-RAM drive and displays the Hardware Management Console Install wizard window. Highlight Next button (use tab/alt-Tab or arrow keys to move), and press Space bar or Enter to select. 
 10. Note: If the Save Upgrade Data was not performed, you will see a warning window that save upgrade data was not found on the hard drive. Cancel the upgrade, remove the recovery media from the DVD drive, reboot the HMC, complete Save Upgrade Data task, then start the upgrade process again.
 11. Using tab or arrow keys to move the cursor and space bar to select an option, select Upgrade to a new release (need asterisk on Upgrade to a new release as shown below):
 12. 
     ( * ) Upgrade to a new release 
     ( ) Install 
     
     Highlight Next button, and press Enter. 
 13. On Upgrade Confirmation screen, highlight Finish and press Enter to start the Upgrade process.
 14. The HMC restores the data preserved by the Save Upgrade Data task, and then completes the booting process. During this process you are prompted to select the language and keyboard mapping.
 15. At the Hardware Management Console login prompt, log in using your user id and password.
 16. Accept the License Agreement for Machine Code twice to complete the HMC code update.

VERIFYING A SUCCESSFUL UPDATE
After the HMC is rebooted, follow these steps to verify that the HMC upgrade was successful: 

 1. Select Welcome from the Navigation panel. 
    
 2. Point your mouse over the HMC Version link on the Content panel to display the Version information.
 3. Verify the version information of the upgraded HMC 8 release in the appropriate Version 8 Readme online in Fix Central.

Back to top

INSTALLING HMC V8 VIA THE HMC V8 RECOVERY MEDIA
Before you begin the installation task, read and follow the instructions in the Prerequisite tasks section.

You can use the HMC V8 Recovery media to perform a full installation of HMC V8 via the "Install from Media" task. 

At the HMC interface, follow these steps to perform a clean installation of your HMC from the Recovery DVDs.

 1. Reboot your HMC with the V8 Recovery DVD inserted in the DVD RAM drive.
 2. The HMC reads the media in the DVD-RAM drive and displays the Hardware Management Console Install wizard window. Highlight Next button (use tab/alt-Tab or arrow keys to move), and press Space bar or Enter to select. 
 3. Using tab or arrow keys to move the cursor and space bar to select an option, select Install (need asterisk on Install as shown below):
 4. 
    ( ) Upgrade to a new version 
    ( * ) Install 
    
    Highlight Next button, and press Enter. 
 5. The “Restore critical console data from media (Install Only)” option will be pre-selected. Navigate to “Finish the installation without restoring data” and press Space bar to select it. Navigate to Next and press Enter to continue.
 6. 
    ( ) Restore critical console data from media (Install Only) 
    ( * ) Finish the installation without restoring data 
    
 7. On the Install Confirmation screen, select Finish to start the Installation process. The install progress screen will be displayed. 
 8. Once the install process is complete, you will be prompted to select the locale and keyboard mapping, and finally accept the HMC license.

VERIFYING A SUCCESSFUL UPDATE
After the HMC is rebooted, follow these steps to verify that the HMC upgrade was successful: 

 1. Select Welcome from the Navigation panel. 
    
 2. Point your mouse over the HMC Version link on the Content panel to display the Version information.
 3. Verify the version information of the upgraded HMC 8 release in the appropriate Version 8 Readme online in Fix Central.

Back to top

UPGRADING/INSTALLING OVER A NETWORK
 Alternately, you can upgrade to HMC Version 8 over a network. The "Special upgrade notes" still apply, but when the specified conditions are met, you can then install over a network instead of using Recovery DVDs. The network install images for HMC Version 8, along with installation instructions, are available here:

 * Upgrading or installing an HMC V8 over a network [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1020108]
 * HMC network installation images download links (all versions) [http://www14.software.ibm.com/webapp/set2/sas/f/netinstall/home.html]

Back to top