Title: IBM i Access Client Solutions 5250 Emulator's use of Translation Tables - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How does the IBM i Access Client Solutions 5250 emulator use Translation Tables? 

ANSWER
The IBM i Access Client Solutions emulator is code shared from the Host On-Demand product and there are parts of the help text of the emulator that pertain more to the emulator in it's native Host On Demand environment then how IBM i Access Client Solutions integrates the emulator.
This is true of the help text for the IBM i Access Client Solutions emulator's

Edit -> Preferences -> Translation Table ...

that says "A translation table allows you to alter the bytes that are sent to and from a server. You can control which bytes should be used when typing input on a keyboard, viewing output in a display or print-out, and when transferring files to/from a server." That help text referring to "when transferring files to/from a server." is referring to the Host On Demand file transfer utility which is not used with IBM i Access Client Solutions. The IBM i Access Client Solutions Data Transfer plugin is not currently designed to used this translation table concept.

This would be a Request for Enhancement to get the IBM i Access Client Solutions Data Transfer to leverage the IBM i Access Client Solutions 5250 Host on Demand emulator's Translation Table concept.

The IBM i Access Client Solutions 5250 emulator can leverage the translation tables as configured in the IBM i Access Client Solutions 5250 emulator. These IBM i Access Client Solutions 5250 emulator Translation Tables are different from the translation tables used by the IBM i Access for Windows PC5250 emulator.

The IBM i Access Client Solutions development team is evaluating how similar or different the IBM i Access for Windows PC5250 emulator translation tables and the IBM i Access Client Solutions Host On Demand based 5250 emulator's are to see if it makes sense to write a migration tool to convert those. Also a Request for Enhancment for this type of migration utility could be submitted.

Here is a link to the Request for Enhancement process:

http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1015918 [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1015918]





Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Operating System IBM i 7.3 Operating System IBM i 7.2 Operating System IBM i 7.1 Operating System IBM i 6.1