Title: IBM Password Encryption - United States

Text:
SECURITY; service tools; SST TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This document contains information on Password Encryption. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
OS Passwords 

Here is an explanation of how the passwords for operating system user profiles are encrypted at each password level: 

1. For systems running at QPWDLVL of 0 or 1, the password is used as the key to encrypt a known character string, which is different for each user profile, using the DES (symmetric) algorithm. The password itself is not encrypted nor stored on the system. The data encrypted using the password as the key is what is stored on the system. 2. For systems running at QPWDLVL of 2 or 3, the password is concatenated to a known character string, which is different for each user profile, and is hashed using the SHA-1 algorithm. This is a one-way cryptographic hash algorithm. The resulting hashed value is what is stored on the system. When it is time to authenticate a profile, the system will take the clear text password that the user entered (on the signon screen, eg.), run the same algorithm and compare the new encrypted result with the encrypted result that was created at password change time. 

There is never a comparison done of the clear text password itself. A clear text password is never stored, so a clear text password is never available to be retrieved. With either encryption algorithm, passwords are one-way encrypted ... meaning you can never decrypt and get back the clear text password. 

SST Passwords

The rules for Service Tools (SST/DST) passwords follow:

Rule 1 

Service Tools user IDs and passwords are different IDs than are used for operating system sign-on. Therefore, there is a QSECOFR IBM-shipped user profile for the operating system. However, the Service Tools profile (also named QSECOFR) is a different profile. The same is true of all service tools profiles on the system. 

Rule 2 

Service Tools user IDs are not case sensitive; however, Service Tools passwords are case sensitive. 

Rule 3 

Service Tools now has two levels of password authentication. The default level is called DES (Data Encryption Service) authentication. The higher level of authentication is called SHA (Secure Hash Algorithm Authentication). Dedicated Service Tools (DST) must be used to change from DES to SHA authentication. Once a system has been upgraded to SH authentication, it can not be returned to DES authentication without a scratch installation. 

Rule 4 DES Authentication Rules 

o DES user IDs are 8 digits and are not case sensitive. 
o DES passwords are 8 digits and are case sensitive. 
o User IDs do not expire. They are only shipped as expired. 

Rule 5 SHA Authentication Rules 

o SHA user IDs are 10 digits and are not case sensitive. 
o SHA passwords are 128 digits and are case sensitive. 
o User IDs expire after 186 days. 
o User IDs require meeting the general guidelines for IBM passwords (internally).

This link to the R610 IBM Information Center provides additional information on Password Policies and characteristics of DES versus SHA encryption. 
http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/iseries/v6r1m0/topic/rzamh/rzamhpwpolicies.htm [http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/iseries/v6r1m0/topic/rzamh/rzamhpwpolicies.htm] 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Operating System IBM i 7.2 Operating System IBM i 7.1 Operating System IBM i 6.1 Operating System IBM i 7.3 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 527692798