Title: IBM xSeries or Blade Server Does Not Power On - United States

Text:
MSGCPFC40F TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 If an iSCSI-attached IBM xSeries or blade server does not power on and a message CPFC40F is logged, there may be a network problem. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
NOTE: This document was written for IBM Director on i, but the specific bullets apply to the new power control scheme for iscsi - SPM (service processor manager). 

The power of an iSCSI attached IBM xSeries or blade server is controlled by its service processor. IBM Director server running in the host operating system partition communicates via network connections in the operating system partition to the service processor on the xSeries or blade to indicate when to power on. The attached server fails to power on if IBM Director cannot communicate with the service processor. A failure could have the following primary causes: The physical connection to the service processor is faulty or IBM Director itself may be experiencing problems.

To diagnose these problems, refer to the joblog for the INSWNTSVR command or the vary on command on the operating system partition. If you see the message: "Cannot connect to the service processor of the remote server or enclosure." with message CPFC40F, this likely indicates a problem with the connection between the operating system partition and the service processor. This could have a number of causes, including: 

o The Ethernet cable from the operating system partition network adapter is not connected to the same network as the Ethernet cable from the service processor. If the cabling looks correct, you should be able to successfully PING the IP address of the service processor from operating system. o The Ethernet cable from the service processor may be plugged into the wrong port on the attached server. This can be verified by referring to the server documentation for the correct location. A management module in a BladeCenter will have a dedicated Ethernet port on the module. An xSeries server will, in most cases, have a dedicated management port that the RSA II SlimLine uses to communicate. An xSeries with a BMC acting as service processor will likely share an onboard Ethernet port. o The actual IP address of the service processor may not match the address specified in the service processor configuration object. o The service processor may not have power. The xSeries or BladeCenter must be plugged into AC power to provide power to its service processor. o TCP/IP may not be working in the operating system partition. The WRKTCPSTS command provides status.  


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Operating System IBM i 6.1 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 413777409