Title: IBM Method for de-installing/powering-off a V840 node - United States

Text:
 PREVENTIVE SERVICE PLANNING

ABSTRACT
 2145-DH8/AC1 BBU Discharge Issue - Power-off steps 

CONTENT
Method for de-installing/powering-off a node 
This method prevents batteries from discharging while the 2145 nodes are powered off.


 1. Shutdown and power-off the node : 
    Using the config GUI or CLI (svctask stopsystem -node <node_name>)
    Using the node's Service Assistant GUI or CLI (satask stopnode -poweroff ) 
 2. Wait for the power button on the front of the node to flash 
 3. Remove BOTH AC power cords from the node 
 4. Remove BOTH batteries from the node 
 5. Re-insert both batteries


If you think a customer may accidentally reapply power and remove it again whilst keeping the node de-installed for a further length of time then you could remove/change step 5 to store the batteries separately, outside of the node. There is NO benefit in terms of retaining battery charge if the batteries are un-installed. 

Checking batteries prior to install/re-install 

There is no way to check the batteries other than installing them in a node, powering-on the node and running the SVC software. 

If the batteries are OK : 

The node will : 
 * Cluster if it was previously clustered and powered back on in the cluster 
 * Appear in Service state as a Candidate node, if it was not previously clustered, with no battery node errors


NOTE: A 572 battery node error may be reported initially if the batteries are flat but charging and will clear once enough charging has taken place. 

If Both batteries are Bad: 
 * The node will be in Service mode with battery node errors 780 ( "Battery 1,2: Operational fault (charging)") and 570 


NOTE: A 572 battery node error may be reported initially, but after 3 minutes this will clear and node errors 780 and 570 will be logged instead 

If one battery is Bad: 

The node will : 
 * Cluster if it was previously clustered and powered back on in the cluster. NOTE: The node may temporarily be in Service with a 571 node error whilst the one good battery charges. 
 * Appear in Service state as a Candidate node, if it was not previously clustered, with battery node error 780 (ie "Battery 1: Operational fault (charging)")