Title: IBM FlashSystem A9000/R: In very rare cases, after a routine restart of an FC port, the port might be left in “link Problem” state - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In very rare cases, following a routine FC target port reset (FC_PORT_RESTART event), the port will remain in a “link Problem” state.
No event is emitted indicating that the port is offline and that the link is down, thus preventing the identification of this issue. 
If this problem occurs on several ports or if the port was not redundant by multipath configuration (IBM best practices can be seen below)– access to that host or target will be lost.
If a port is affected by this issue, IBM Support assistance is required to enabling the port.

* Only a port that is defined as a target port is exposed to this issue. Initiator ports are not exposed.

Affected versions: A9000/R systems running code level 12.0.3 or older. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Identification: 

IBM will be providing a patch for immediate identification of the issue. By installing a single patch on the system, both customer and IBM personnel will be notified of the potential affected ports.
The patch will emit a critical custom event ('FC Port "1:FC_Port:x:x" was restarted and remained offline. Please contact IBM Support.) when the issue occurs, providing identification using regular system events. 

 * For systems that are connected to IBM Call Home service, the events will be monitored, and an automatic escalation to IBM Support will be made. 
 * For systems that are not connected to IBM Call Home service, contact your IBM Technical Advisor should you have one assigned, or your IBM Representative.


Mitigation: 
The mitigation can only be applied by IBM Support personnel. 

The patch installation is concurrent, takes only a few minutes, and can be done through a remote connection. Customers that have enabled remote support will be contacted by IBM Remote Support teams to apply the fix remotely. 

Fix: 
A fix to this problem that causes the FC port to remain offline is planned on the next code release. 
Note that an affected port will automatically be restarted when a system undergoes upgrade (to any version). 


IBM's recommendations for best practices for the multipath connectivity to hosts requires to have redundant configurations for all Hosts and Targets. 
please consult with redbook sg248368 
http://www.redbooks.ibm.com/redbooks/pdfs/sg248368.pdf [http://www.redbooks.ibm.com/redbooks/pdfs/sg248368.pdf] 
1.2.2 Fibre Channel configurations