Title: IBM OA39564: INFO ON MQRFH HEADER SUPPORT - United States

Text:
z/os SUBSCRIBE
You can track all active APARs for this component.



APAR STATUS
 * CLOSED AS DOCUMENTATION ERROR.
    
   
   

ERROR DESCRIPTION
 *  Informational apar created to revise the MQ agent document to
   clearly state the MQ headers currently supported by the agent.
   
   
    
   
   

LOCAL FIX

PROBLEM SUMMARY
 *  The current documentation of WebSphere MQ Monitoring Agent
   User's Guide has the following problems:
   
   1. It doesn't clearly clarify which WebSphere MQ headers are
   supported.
   
   2. It has misleading to customers that the WebSphere MQ headers
   such MQRFH are supported by the agent but they are not.
   
   
    
   
   

PROBLEM CONCLUSION
 *  The following updates will be made to the WebSphere MQ
   Monitoring Agent User's Guide to clearly clarify the WebSphere
   MQ headers that are supported by the agent.
   
   1. In the following location of the WebSphere MQ Monitoring
   Agent User's Guide
   
   Chapter 13 Reference
       Workspaces
           Message Descriptor workspace
               Predefined views
                   Message Descriptor
   
   the content will be updated as follows:
   
   This view lists the parameters in the message descriptor (MQMD)
   header of the WebSphere MQ message and additional WebSphere MQ
   headers that are available in the message. Not all WebSphere MQ
   headers are supported; the WebSphere MQ Monitoring agent
   currently supports the following WebSphere MQ headers:
   
   -  MQMD (message descriptor)
   -  MQMDE (message descriptor extension)
   -  MQDLH (dead-letter header)
   -  MQXQH (transmission-queue header)
   -  MQRMH (reference message header)
   -  MQDH (distribution header)
   
   Note: The distribution header (MQDH) is supported only on
   distributed systems.
   
   The message descriptor (MQMD) is always present in a WebSphere
   MQ message. A WebSphere MQ message might contain zero, one, or
   more of the other WMQ headers. Therefore, you might not see all
   of the above headers for a given MQ message.
   
   The following fields are displayed for the message descriptor
   (MQMD) of the WebSphere MQ message:
       - The name and type of the application that created the
   message
       - The backout count. If this is high it might indicate a
   problem.
       - The correlation and message IDs
       - The message expiration time
       - The message length
       - The message type. Possible message types are request,
   reply, report and datagram
       - The message persistence, which indicates whether or not
   the message is recoverable
       - The message priority, which can be used for selective
   retrieval of messages from queues
       - The date and time at which the message was created
   (relative to GMT). This is also known as the put data and time.
   It is different from the Queue Messages table view, which
   displays the put date and time in local time of the monitored
   system.
       - The reply-to queue and queue manager names
   
   The following fields are displayed for the message descriptor
   extension (MQMDE) if it exists in the WebSphere MQ message:
       - The numeric encoding, character set identifier, and format
   name of the data that follows the MQMDE
       - The group ID and the sequence number of logical message
   within the group
   
   The following fields are displayed for the dead letter header
   (MQDLH) if it exists in the WebSphere MQ message:
       - The original destination queue and queue manager names
       - The name and type of the application that created the
   message
       - The date and time when the message was put on dead-letter
   queue (relative to GMT). It is different from the Queue Messages
   table view, which displays the put date and time in local time
   of the monitored system.
       - The numeric encoding, character set identifier, and format
   name of the data that follows the MQDLH
   
   The following fields are displayed for the transmission-queue
   header (MQXQH) if it exists in the WebSphere MQ message:
       - The destination queue and queue manager names
       - Information of the original message descriptor (MQMD)
   
   The following fields are displayed for the message reference
   header (MQRMH) if it exists in the WebSphere MQ message:
       - The object type and object instance identifier
       - The length and offset of source environment data
       - The length and offset of source object name
       - The length and offset of destination environment data
       - The length and offset of destination object name
       - The numeric encoding, character set identifier, and format
   name of the bulk data
       - The length, low and high offset of the bulk data
   
   The following fields are displayed for the distribution header
   (MQDH) if it exists in the WebSphere MQ message :
       - The numeric encoding, character set identifier, and format
   name of the data that follows the array of put-message record
   (MQPMR) records
       - The object name and object queue manager name if present
       - The attributes of the MQPMR if present
   
   2. In the following location of the WebSphere MQ Monitoring
   Agent User's Guide
   
   Chapter 13 Reference
       Workspaces
           Message Contents workspace
               Predefined views
                   Message Contents
   
   the content will be updated as follows:
   
   This view shows the application section of the selected message,
   which contains the message contents, including the first four
   kilobytes of message data in character form. If you are using
   version 6.0.1 of the WebSphere MQ Monitoring agent or later, you
   can also view the information about the CCSIDs that are used to
   convert the message data to different forms, and whether
   conversion was successful. If the contents of one of the cells
   containing message data is too long to be contained within a
   single cell,  the contents of a single message are displayed on
   multiples rows. This is indicated by an asterisk (*) displayed
   at either end of cells containing character or converted data.
   
   The message content might contain one or more WebSphere MQ
   headers. The agent processes these headers before it displays
   the message data in this workspace. For those WebSphere MQ
   headers that are supported by the WebSphere MQ Monitoring agent
   and are documented in the Message Descriptor workspace of this
   guide, the headers themselves will be stripped out from the
   message content. The attributes of the headers are displayed in
   the Message Descriptor workspace. For the WebSphere MQ headers
   that are not supported by the WebSphere MQ Monitoring agent, the
   agent treats these headers as normal data. The unsupported
   WebSphere MQ headers and the data following them are displayed
   in this workspace. In this situation, garbage data might be
   displayed in both the Character Data and Converted Data columns,
   because the agent cannot recognize the correct CCSID of the data
   following the unsupported headers.
   
   
    
   
   

TEMPORARY FIX

COMMENTS

APAR INFORMATION
 * APAR NUMBER
   OA39564
   
   
 * REPORTED COMPONENT NAME
   OMEG XE WEBSPHM
   
   
 * REPORTED COMPONENT ID
   5608A1100
   
   
 * REPORTED RELEASE
   701
   
   
 * STATUS
   CLOSED DOC
   
   
 * PE
   NoPE
   
   
 * HIPER
   NoHIPER
   
   
 * SPECIAL ATTENTION
   NoSpecatt
   
   
 * SUBMITTED DATE
   2012-05-11
   
   
 * CLOSED DATE
   2012-06-07
   
   
 * LAST MODIFIED DATE
   2012-06-07
   
   

 * APAR IS SYSROUTED FROM ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING:
   
   
   
 * APAR IS SYSROUTED TO ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING:
   
   
   

FIX INFORMATION

APPLICABLE COMPONENT LEVELS