Title: IBM The Rhapsody License Borrower runs slowly - United States

Text:
rhapsody; v7.5.3; v7.6.1; borrow; license; license borrower; performance; performance degradation; slow; environment variables; registry; TELELOGIC_LICENSE_FILE; licence manager; flexlm; system variables TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Attempts to borrow an IBM Rational Telelogic Rhapsody license with the License Borrower result in performance degradation. 

SYMPTOM
To reproduce the problem, try to borrow a Rhapsody licence. You will find that it can take several minutes to do so and that the Licence Borrower's performance is worse in Rhapsody v7.6.1 than in Rhapsody v7.5.3.


CAUSE
You have some redundant Environment Variables values or the server name for your Rhapsody licence appears too far down the list inside the TELELOGIC_LICENSE_FILE Registry string.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM


REGISTRY EDITS: This solution contains information about modifying the system registry. Before making any modifications to the Microsoft Registry Editor, it is strongly recommended that you make a backup of the existing registry. For more information describing how to back up the registry, refer to Microsoft Knowledge Base article 256986 [http://support.microsoft.com/kb/256986]


SOLUTIONS 

There are two solutions, depending on whether you have the permissions to edit the Registry. 

If you do not have the rights to modify the Registry, modify the Environment Variables as follows:


 1. Close all IBM Rational products
    
    
 2. Open the Windows Explorer
    
    
 3. Right-click on My Computer and go to Properties > Advanced
    
    
 4. Click on the Environment Variables button
    
    
 5. Locate the TELELOGIC_LICENSE_FILE entry from the System variables list and double-click on it to open it
    
    
 6. Remove any redundant or invalid values inside the Variable value text box and place your Rhapsody server to the front (far left within the text box)
    
    
 7. Click OK on all the dialog boxes to save the changes
    
    
 8. Restart Microsoft Windows, so that the changes will take effect
    
    
 9. Use the License Borrower to borrow a Rhapsody license and the performance problem will no longer arise 
    
    
    OR
    


If you do have rights to modify the Registry, modify the Registry as follows: 
 1. Close all IBM Rational/Telelogic products 
    
    
 2. Open the Registry and locate the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\FLEXlm License Manager key. This key will contain the TELELOGIC_LICENSE_FILE string.
    
    
 3. Open the TELELOGIC_LICENSE_FILE string 
    
    
 4. Place the server name for the Rhapsody license at the far left of the textbox, so that it appears first in the list, when reading from left to right
    
    
 5. Select OK and close the Registry
    
    
 6. Restart Microsoft Windows, so that the changes will take effect
    
    
 7. Use the License Borrower to borrow a Rhapsody license and the performance problem will no longer arise