Title: IBM "Could not find any previously installed compliant product on the machine for installing this product" when installing IBM SPSS Statistics product or Fix Packs. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Error when installing the IBM SPSS Statistics program or a Statistics Fix Pack:

"Could not find any previously installed compliant product on the machine for installing this product".

The installation process then terminates and the program/fix pack is not installed. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Error when installing the program: 

 * Do you have an old trial version of an SPSS Statistics installed? If yes, please uninstall it. It is also recommended that you rename the previous installation folder. For example, \Statistics\21 to \Statistics\21_old. Once this has been done, you should be able to install the 'full' version of IBM SPSS Statistics normally.



Error when installing the Fix Pack:  * Please check the version of your product is the same as the version of the Fix Pack you have downloaded. If they do not match, the installation will fail. 
 * Please check the type of Fix Pack you have downloaded. SPSS Statistics has both Client and Server software. The Client Fix Pack can not be installed on the Server, or visa versa. 
 * Please check the bit-version of your SPSS Statistics program and the downloaded Fix Pack. The 64 bit Fix Pack will fail when installed to the 32-bit program. Confirm whether you have SPSS Statistics 32-bit or 64-bit installed and download the fix pack with the corresponding bit-version.


To determine the bit-version of product installed on a Windows operating system 
(1) Select the 'Help' menu. 
(2) Select the 'About' menu option. 
(3) In the lower left corner of the window, below the 'Release' version information will appear the bit-version 

If '32-bit edition' is indicated, the product is a 32-bit product installation. 
If '64-bit edition' is indicated, the product is a 64-bit product installation. 

To determine the bit-version of the product installed on a Mac/Linux operating system 
(1) Open Statistics 
(2) Select the 'SPSS Statistics' menu. 
(3) Select the 'About SPSS Statistics' menu entry. 

If '32-bit edition' is indicated, the product is a 32-bit product installation. 
If '64-bit edition' is indicated, the product is a 64-bit product installation. RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]




HISTORICAL NUMBER
 86586