Title: IBM Routing error and 8:dest Q, xxx_queue.q, I/O error. No Agent reading Q: - Sterling Gentran:Server for UNIX - United States

Text:
STERLINGPRI TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Routing error and 8:dest Q, xxx_queue.q, I/O error. No Agent reading Q: 

SYMPTOM
8:dest Q, xxx_queue.q, I/O error. No Agent reading Q: routing error=1.


CAUSE
The data manager for which this error occurs is configured to write data to a 
queue (a directory containing the files .q.dat and .q.idx) but no downstream 
data manager is reading from that same queue.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
If the data manager encounters this error, the name of the queue to which it is trying to write is displayed in the error message: 8:dest Q, xxx_queue.q, I/O error. No Agent reading Q: (where "xxx_queue" is the name of the queue). If this data manager should be writing to this queue, then make sure there is a downstream data manager to read entries from this queue. Or, if this data manager should not be writing to this queue, then make sure that the configuration record for this data manager does not include queue info. If this data manager should be writing to this queue: 1. Determine which data manager should be reading from this queue. 2. Stop the data manager which should be reading from this queue. 3. Edit the initialization file for the data manager which should read from this queue. 4. Set the parameter :WORK_DIRECTORY to the name of the queue. 5. Set the parameter :WORK_TYPE to q 6. Restart the data manager. 7. It is possible for multiple data managers to read from the same queue. Follow steps 2-6 for each data manager which should read from this queue. If this data manager should not be writing to this queue: 1. Stop the data manager which is trying to write to this queue. 2. Edit the configuration records for this data manager. 3. Find the configuration record which includes the queue (named in the error message) in the "Queue Info" box (lower right corner). 4. Modify the configuration record so that the "Queue Info" box is empty. Tip: First, delete the Resource Group field and then delete the Queue Name field. 5. The data manager may have multiple configuration records which are set to write to the queue. Repeat steps 3-4 for each configuration record which includes the incorrect queue information. 6. The data manager does not need to be restarted for changes to configuration records (as it must for changes to initialization files).

 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 PRI4524 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 

Fact


GENTRAN:Server For UNIX
All Releases 
SCI25184 
Data being processed 
through a data manager.