Title: IBM Logging into Rational Change or Synergy results in "License Server unavailable" error - United States

Text:
Unable; to; re-open; lock; file; ((null)):; No; such; file; directory; EXITING; DUE; TO; SIGNAL; 41; locktelelogic; lockiload; lockstmmd TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Attempts to login to IBM Rational Change or Rational Synergy results in the "License Server unavailable" error. 

SYMPTOM
You are unable to Login to Rational Change or Rational Synergy and the license log file records the following message:

---------------------------------
Unable to re-open lock file ((null)): No such file directory EXITING DUE TO SIGNAL 41
Exited because another server was running 
---------------------------------

CAUSE
Cause 1: The lock files locktelelogic,lockiload or lockstmmd located at /var/tmp/ directory are deleted or write protected. 

The possible reasons for the files to get locked or get write protected are due to some backup operation, or some clean job or any scheduled activities in IT (admin). 

For example:
A cleanup job issued by the "root" user and written to the default "cron tab" deletes all files located at /var/tmp directory causing the lock files to be deleted and thus stopping the License Server. 


Cause 2: Multiple License Server's are running on the same machine.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Solution 1: Check if the lock files are not available to the license server any point of time.


 * The lock files are created and located at:
   /var/tmp/locktelelogic
   /var/tmp/lockiload
   /var/tmp/lockstmmd


If any of these lock files are removed or made write protected the observed failure can occur. 

If the lock files are deleted, stop and restart the License Server. 



Solution 2: Check if there are multiple instances of lmgrd running on the same server. 

For example: IBM Rational Rhapsody and IBM Rational ClearCase are some of the product that uses its own instance of Flex. 

Run the following commands to check for multiple running lmgrd's 
 * List all lmgrd process: ps -ef | grep lmgrd 
 * Lists the Telelogic daemons running:ps -ef | grep telelogic 
 * List the process running on the specified port:netstat -an | grep <license server port number>


If there are multiple instances of the server that is running, stop all the servers and start only the required License server alone. 




Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Synergy Licensing