Title: IBM TCP/IP ports used by Netcool/OMNIbus for firewall configurations - United States

Text:
OMNIbus TCP/IP Ports; OMNIbus Ports; OMNIbus Port Usage; OMNIbus Default Ports; OMNIbus Communication Ports; IDUC port TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What TCP/IP communication ports are used by Netcool/OMNIbus? 

CAUSE
Need to know the Netcool/OMNIbus TCP/IP port usage for firewall considerations. 

ANSWER
 

Netcool/OMNIbus ObjectServer uses port 4100 as default to communicate with other components. Gateway, probes, other clients, and process control agents also need ports to be assigned or configured. Ports are specified using the Server Editor (nco_xigen) or omni.dat file (and using nco_igen) to generate the interface file used by OMNIbus components. The interfaces file contains a list of IBM Tivoli Netcool/OMNIbus components and the ports assigned.

For example, the default ports (that can be modified) used by Netcool/OMNIbus components are ObjectServer (4100), Process Control Agent (4200), Gateway (4300 ), Proxy Server (4400), IBM Eclipse Help System - IEHS (8888), and an available port for IDUC communication. 

By default, when an ObjectServer starts an available port number is chosen for the IDUC connection. Specify or designate an available IDUC port to use via the property Iduc.ListeningPort or -listeningport option when accessing an ObjectServer protected by a firewall. The IDUC port is used by clients that require Read/Write (Insert/Update/Delete) access to the object server. Any client, including Desktop, Webtop, and Gateway that requires the access will need the IDUC port to be opened in a firewall environment.

Refer to "Default port numbers used by Tivoli Netcool/OMNIbus" in the Appendix section of Tivoli Netcool/OMNIbus: Installation and Deployment Guide and "Specifying the IDUC port" of the Administration Guide for additional information.

In addition to the above, depending on the probes deployed, and if the Peer-to-peer failover mode for probes used or not additional ports may be needed. Refer to specific probe documentation (Reference Guide) for the TCP/IP ports used or needed for the probe to operate.