Title: IBM "Cannot find remote element XXXX of type RulePackage" error when Synchronizing between Rule Studio and Rule Team Server - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When creating a rule project in Rule Studio by synchronizing with Rule Team Server (RTS), the synchronization fails with the error "Cannot find remote element XXXX of type RulePackage" in the workspace logs. Why is this happening? 

SYMPTOM
 

When a rule project is created in Studio from RTS, the error "Cannot find remote element XXXX of type RulePackage" appears in the workspace logs (in the .metadata folder). 


CAUSE

The error message indicates that the rule package XXXX (which is a top-level rule package) was not correctly created as a result of synchronization.

Synchronization is performed at the top-level package. For example, suppose that all your rules are under the top-level package PackageA. If you create a new project in Studio from RTS, all the rules under PackageA are sent from RTS to Studio at the same time, If the number of rules in a single top-level package is very large, then this can be a significant bottleneck during synchronization, and lead to the error above. 

This error has been known to occur when two or more clients simultaneously try to retrieve the entire rule project from Rule Team Server. The clients can either be Rule Studio instances, or use headless synchronization.

This is indicative of not enough allocation of memory resources. 



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 

You should make sure that RTS has been started with enough maximum heap size (1024 MB or greater), using the JVM argument -Xmx. Also make sure you have set the initial heap size to a reasonable amount (such as 512 MB), using the JVM argument -Xms. You should also provide similar settings for Rule Studio and/or the headless synchronization client. 

In addition, you should do an analysis of memory usage to tweak your JVM settings correctly for the memory requirements for your environment. 

We recommend that you restructure your rule project so that the rules are split among multiple top-level packages. If you split them into multiple top-level packages, then the amount of memory needed while sending a top-level package from RTS to Studio (or vice versa) will be smaller.

We also recommend that you minimize the need for getting an entire rule project from RTS (when creating a new rule project from RTS in Studio). Instead of getting the entire rule project from RTS each time you synchronize, you should synchronize with an existing local copy of the project. This would significantly lower the memory used since only the rules that were changed will be sent from RTS to Studio.

For more detailed recommendations on Synchronization performance and configuring JVM memory settings, see the document "Performance issue when doing Synchronization between Rule Studio and Rule Team Server [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21425548]". 

RELATED INFORMATION
#Synchronization issues between Rule Studio and RTS [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21427772]


 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Integration IBM Operational Decision Manager Platform Independent 7.5 Enterprise Business Integration IBM Operational Decision Manager Platform Independent 8.0