Title: IBM Tivoli Storage Manager V6.4 Application Programming Interface (API) known problems and limitations - United States

Text:
areadme640 TSM 6.4 API AIX HP-UX Linux Mac Solaris Windows TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 This document contains warnings and known problems for the Tivoli Storage Manager V6.4 Application Programming Interface (API). 

ANSWER
Tivoli Storage Manager API known problems and limitations 

Contents: 

 * Common API warnings 
 * Windows API warnings 
 * API known problems





Common API warnings  * A writable log file is required for backup and restore operations. The DSMI_LOG environment variable or the dsm.sys file (on UNIX and Linux clients) or the dsm.opt file (on Windows clients) errorlogname option must be set to a path that the user of the application can write to. If the user performing the backup or restore does not have write permissions to the log file, the process will fail. The TSM API return code for this situation is 106 (Access to the specified file or directory is denied). 
 * Objects that have been backed up or archived with the V6.4 Tivoli Storage Manager API cannot be restored or retrieved with a previous version API, regardless of the server level. The data must be restored or retrieved by a V6.4 level or higher API. 


Back to Contents 



Windows API warnings  * When running the client as described in the Tivoli Field Guide "Tivoli Storage Manager Recovery Techniques Using Windows Preinstallation Environment (Windows PE)" you will receive the error message: 


ANS1464S Cannot load ICC encryption library
Because the scenarios described in the field guide are not run from a fully installed TSM client, the registry entry indicating the location of the ICC encryption library is not created. Since the recovery scenarios described in the field guide do not involve TSM encrypted files, you can bypass this error by modifying your client options file and specifying the option ENCRYPTIONTYPE DES56. This prevents the client from attempting to load the ICC encryption library. 

Back to Contents 







Tivoli Storage Manager API limitations and known problems  

There are no API limitations and known problems at this time. 

Back to Contents