Title: IBM Missing user defined objects after editing the LDAP "login properties" - United States

Text:
DASHL2; login properties; cn; uid; TCR; WebGUI; filters; views; reports; folders TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Why did changing the contents of the "login properties" field in an LDAP configuration in Dashboard Application Services Hub (DASH) cause custom WebGUI filters and views and custom TCR reports and folders to disappear? 

ANSWER
Changing the values in the "login properties" field in a DASH LDAP configuration should be done with caution. For DASH the values in the "login properties" field serve only to control what can be passed as a login ID when logging in to DASH or the WAS Admin Console. The default values for the field are: cn, uid
The order of the values specified in the field are also important in DASH as the first value listed controls what shown as the logged in user in the DASH UI. For example, if the the user's cn="Smith, John", and the uid=jsmith, then in the DASH UI the logged in user would display as "Smith, John". If the "login properties" values were set to "uid, cn" then the display in DASH would show "jsmith" as the logged in ID.

For products deployed in DASH the order is also meaningful. The first property is used to define the owner of user defined objects in those applications. For example, Tivoli Common Reporting allows users to create custom reports and customer folders to store them. The custom folders and reports are tied to the user by the value of the first login property specified in the DASH LDAP config. So, using the example of John Smith above, the default would associate the TCR folders and reports with the ID "Smith, John".

Changing the values of the login properties field on an established DASH system can be problematic as most products that deploy in DASH have no utilities to migrate user defined objects to a new property. While it may be possible to manually manipulate files to accommodate the change, there are likely no tested procedures by IBM and therefore are not likely to be supported.