Title: IBM Why didn't I get the Notes Smart Upgrade prompt on my client? - United States

Text:
smart upgrade; smartupgrade; did not receive prompt; not prompted; suugprade; suupdate TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
Why didn't I get the Notes Smart Upgrade prompt on my client?

CAUSE
Notes may wait 24 hours before checking for Smart Upgrade. 

The prompt is triggered by the Dynamic Client Configuration (DCC) utility on the Notes client. DCC caches several flags and timers in the client's NOTES.INI and the personal address book (names.nsf) to decide when to run certain tasks, like checking for Smart Upgrades. This way, Notes will not spam the Domino server with unnecessary requests.


ANSWER
 

Any machine an administrator has used for testing is likely to have checked recently for Smart Upgrade and may not check again for up to 24 hours. 

 

Do not expect immediate, automatic prompts on any particular machine. Instead, validate your Smart Upgrade configuration by choosing Tools - Notes Smart Upgrade from your Inbox. If the Smart Upgrade prompt appears your server-side configuration is correct. If you receive the "no matching kits" error, troubleshoot your Smart Upgrade configuration, especially the To version and From version in the Smart Upgrade Kit document. 

 

Can I force the prompt on my test client? Yes, but this proves nothing. The prompt is controlled 100% on the client side so getting your test client to throw the prompt does not mean any particular client will prompt the user to upgrade. 

 

What should I do if a particular client doesn't prompt the user to upgrade? Ask the user to open their Inbox and choose Tools -> Smart Upgrade. If the user then receives the "no matching kits" error, double-check the Kit document configuration. If the upgrade prompt appears, upgrade the client. No further action is required, running the upgrade will reset the DCC flags and the user will likely be prompted for the next upgrade. 

 

What if a particular client is never prompted to upgrade? It is possible for data corruption in the DCC cache to prevent Notes from prompting for Smart Upgrade. If this feature is critical, you can rerun Notes setup and create a new personal address book to resolve the issue. (In short, the essential steps are to clear the NOTES.INI and create a new local NAMES.NSF; you do not need to recreate BOOKMARK.NSF or DESKTOP8.NDK.) 

See technote 1245069 -- How to rerun setup on a Notes 8.0 or 8.5 client [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21245069]