Title: IBM Scheduled reports start later than according to the schedule - United States

Text:
scheduled reports; schedule; count ready tasks; ipfclientconfig.xml; ipfSDSclientconfig.xml.sample TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Scheduled reports in IBM Rational Reporting Development for Intelligence (RRDI) start later than what appears in the schedule. 

SYMPTOM
According to the schedule for given report, the starting date is later than scheduled date. This happens after an upgrade from RRDI 2.0.3 to 2.0.4 or in an existing instance.


CAUSE
Your all batch services are already running and you do not have enough services set compared to the number of reports you have scheduled.

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Enable additional logging in your server


 1. Copy file ipfSDSclientconfig.xml.sample in
    <your-RRDI-install>/cognos/config/ directory and replace the copy with ipfclientconfig.xml (If there is no such file, create it).
    
    
 2. Wait until tomorrow when tasks start. In <RRDI-install>/cognos/logs/cogserver.log file, the value of Count ready tasks = keeps increasing.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Modify the number of connections and services for an agent that can be scheduled agent: 

 1. Navigate to Cognos administration
    
    
 2. Go to Configuration > Dispatchers and Services > BatchReportService > Settings
    
    
 3. Increase values of following services:

 * Number of high affinity connections for the batch report service during
   non-peak period 
 * Number of low affinity connections for the batch report service during
   non-peak period 
 * Maximum number of processes for the batch report service during
   non-peak period 
 * Number of high affinity connections for the batch report service during
   peak period 
 * Number of low affinity connections for the batch report service during
   peak period 
 * Maximum number of processes for the batch report service during peak
   Period
   
   There is no rule what the values of these services should be. You can start increasing them by 2 and then check if the deviations are lower, which will cause the reports to start earlier.