Title: IBM The Statistics Output node in Modeler does not recognize weighting on weighted *.sav files - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I am working in Modeler and I have added a weighted *.sav file to the sav source node. When I add a Statistics output node to the stream and try to run a Correspondence analysis (which requires the variable to be weighted) and execute the Statistics output node the results returned in the Statistics Output Viewer do not have the weighting applied. 

However if I run the the same task in SPSS Statistics 17.0.1 the weighting is applied and I receive the expected results. However if remove the weighting by adding the syntax "WEIGHT OFF" and rerun the analysis in SPSS Statistics 17.0.1 I receive the same results returned by the process performed in Modeler.

Why is Modeler not recognizing the weighting in the sav file?

I could add the weighting via SPSS syntax by adding a Statistics transform node to get the same results as SPSS Statistics 17.0.1. However, it is a very tedious task to create the syntax from scratch. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
This problem has been reported to SPSS Development. We apologize for any inconvenience this has caused. Please see the workaround described below.

The workaround is to add the weighting via SPSS syntax in a Statistics Transform node in Modeler

1. Open the sav file in SPSS Statistics and use the Data>>Weight Cases.. utility to create the weighted variable. 
2. Click on "Paste" to paste the syntax into a syntax editor.
3. Copy the "WEIGHT BY <Variable name>."
4. In the Modeler stream add a Statistics Transform node to the stream between the sav data source node and Statistics Output node.
5. Double click on the Statistics Transform node to edit the node.
6. Check the Syntax Editor radio button to bring up the syntax editor section in the node.
7. Paste the "WEIGHT BY <Variable name>." you copied from SPSS Statistics and OK.
8. Run the Statistics Output node and the weight will be applied.

Note: you can also create the syntax directly in the syntax window by using the WEIGHT BY <Variable name>. syntax if you are comfortable with SPSS syntax

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Modeler forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/modeler/?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 82129