Title: IBM Workbench configuration deployment takes a long time, what can I do to reduce it? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 We have a Virtual MDM Configuration Project and deployment time is slow. What is considered a normal deployment time and what can be done to reduce it? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
When the deployment starts from the workbench, the engine is suspended and it takes some processing. It needs to stop all the worker threads in tag engine, entity manager and event manager. To stop each worker thread, it needs to wait for all the work completed by the current worker thread. For example, for entity manager, they have to complete all the entity management processing for the records in the internal queue before stopping, this is a normal phenomena.
The engine log can show what goes on in the processing for thread stopping for the polling threads for the entity managers and event managers. By default each one of these pollseconds for the entity and event managers threads can take as long as 10 seconds to stop.
Both event and entity managers take a pollseconds configuration parameter. 

In version 11.0 onwards: 
Event Manager: WAS_PROFILE_HOME/conf/com.ibm.mdm.mds.event.manager.cfg 
Entity Manager: WAS_PROFILE_HOME/conf/com.ibm.mdm.mds.entity.manager.cfg
In pre-11:
Event Manager: MAD_HOMEDIR/inst/instanceName/conf/com.initiate.server.event.cfg
Entity Manager: MAD_HOMEDIR/inst/instanceName/conf/com.initiate.server.entity.cfg

There is a sleep used to execute the 10 seconds timeout. This sleep needs to expire before the thread can detect that it has been asked to shutdown. If you have 3 entity types there are: 2 (polling threads for entity and event manager) x 3 (entity types) x 10 (pollseconds) = 60 seconds spent just shutting down the polling threads. 
For pollseconds we would recommend 1 second for the entity manager and 3 seconds for the event manager but this is the minimum value that can be set, you may multiple 1 and 3 by some number (2,3..) to keep the proportion. This should help to reduce shutdown times.
The 1 second poll time for entity manager is the lowest reasonable number. We need a delay so we don't flood the database with select requests causing the database to churn for no reason. The 3 seconds for the event manager is because the event manager should always poll less often than the entity manager to allow it to finish its work before event manager kicks off it's work. It should actually be much higher (at least 30 seconds) to group the work in nice chunks.