Title: IBM Installing a WebSphere Monitoring agent v7.2 - United States

Text:
CAMADALL CAMADWASDC maintenance upgrade interim fix TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 You want the latest maintenance of this agent, in order to monitor a mixed set of WebSphere Application Server instances, versions 7.x, 8.x and 8.5.x

Do you need to (first) configure the GA version of the Data Collector on each of the WAS instances? Is there any best practice to follow? 

ANSWER
No, you don't need to configure the base version v7.2. And, this is not the recommended approach. 

If you plan to go for the latest maintenance, the best practice is to proceed as follows: 

 1. Download from Passport Advantage website the ITCAM Agent 7.2 for WAS, that is based on Data Collector version 7.2.0.0.1 
 2. Install this agent by using the standard “install.sh” script (UNIX) or Setup executable (for Windows). Do not configure any Data Collector yet (you can exit the installer when it asks if you want to configure one or more application servers) 
 3. At this point, if you go to the ITCAM filesystem you should NOT find any ITCAM runtime sub-directory created yet, i.e./opt/IBM/ITM/dchome/7.2.0.0.1/runtime/... 
 4. From Fix Central website download all the needed maintenance files, for example for this agent you may want to take directly this one: 7.2.0.0-TIV-ITCAMAD_WS-IF0005 (it is based on Data Collector 7.2.0.0.10) 
 5. Install the maintenance as in step 2, but this time you can proceed to configure one or more WAS instances as needed.


The above is the suggested procedure in order to minimize any potential issue when trying to configure a WebSphere instance. An earlier version of the agent (such as v7.2 GA) could not fully support a specific setup, both at configuration time (limitation in the ITCAM configurator) and at runtime (limitation in the ITCAM Data Collector). Of course, a newer maintenance version will come with a newer ITCAM configurator and Data Collector. 

NOTE: The above steps assume that you have installed or updated all the needed Application Support files on the TEMS and TEPS servers of your ITM environment.