Title: IBM When licensing my product, I am receiving the message "Error: Failed to add license to 'lservrc'. Make sure you have write access." - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 My computer is owned by an institution (corporate or educational). My SPSS program was recently installed and now I am trying to license my product using the License Authorization Wizard. However, after entering my authorization code, I am receiving the message "Error: Failed to add license to 'lservrc'. Make sure you have write access." and my SPSS program does not work. What can I do? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The most likely cause for this problem is indicated in the error message: You do not have write access permissions to the SPSS PASW program installation directory with the user account with which you are currently logged in. 

If your computer is owned/managed by an institution (corporate or educational) you may not have access to administrator permissions on your computer. Contact your institution's technology group to complete the SPSS licensing process. 

(A) 
If (1) your computer is not owned/managed by and institution, and (2) you are using a Microsoft Windows operating system, the following may resolve the problem you have encountered:

Open a file browser.
Navigate to your Statistics program installation directory.
Locate the file labeled 'lservrc'. 
Right-click on 'lservrc'.
Select the 'Properties' menu option.
Select the 'General' tab (top).
Locate the 'Attributes' section'
If the 'Read-only' check-box is selected, deselect (un-check) this box.
Select the 'Apply' button.
Select the 'OK' button.
The window should now close.
Run the License Authorization Wizard and provide your license authorization code when prompted.

(B)
If (1) your computer is not owned/managed by an institution, and (2) you are using a Macintosh operating system, the following may resolve the problem you are experiencing:

Confirm that the account you are logged in with has Admin privileges:
Select the 'apple' icon in the upper left corner of the screen.
Select System Preferences.
Select Accounts.
Your login account should be listed here.
If your login account has administrator privileges, the word 'Admin' will appear underneath the login name.
If you account does not have 'Admin' underneath the name, you are not logged in with administrator permissions.
To correct this problem, log in using a different account with 'Admin' permissions and run the License Authorization Wizard using this account

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]
Need more help? Our Licensing forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/spsslicensing.html]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 81647