Title: IBM Unable to run Test Suites against clustered SSP from Decison Center console - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I have a clustered Decision Server where XU and SSP are deployed on cluster members and Rule Execution Server (RES) console is deployed on a standalone server outside of the cluster. IHS and a load balancer is configured on top of the cluster. 
In Decision Center, the RES server URL is configured with the load balanced IP.
Test Suite fails to run from Decision Center console in this configuration. 

SYMPTOM
After clicking on Run from Decision Center console, the process starts, but after a few seconds, execution stops with a message: Cannot execute the scenario suite xxx. The operation was aborted by user. 

No errors shown in Decision Center and Decision Server server logs. The only error seen is from the browser and no stack trace is displayed.


CAUSE
There are multiple http requests made from Decision Center to SSP in order to start the test suite run and check its status. When a load balancer is used, it is not guaranteed that each http request from the Decision Center is routed to the same SSP. For instance, assume the first http request is received by SSP1. Decision Center later makes another http request to check on its status by contacting the same URL. This request can be load balanced to SSP2, which has no notion of the job. Such scenario can lead to the aforementioned error. 


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Run test suite from Decision Center with either one of the following configurations: 

1. Run the Decision Validation Service (DVS) test against a dedicated standalone SSP: 
Deploy SSP on the same server with RES management console. On Decision Center console, configure RES server URL to point to the specific server IP, instead of the load balanced IP. 

2. Customize IlrSSPResolver if you want to distribute the DVS tests to multiple application servers. Note that all rule executions for each single Test Suite or Simulation request will still be done on the same server. This customization allows load balancing between Test Suite or Simulation requests.
See this document [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21502095] for details. 


RELATED INFORMATION
#Distribute DVS tests on different RES servers [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21502095]