Title: IBM How to Set, Reset or Clear Passwords in Lotus Approach - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
How can you set, reset or completely clear passwords in Lotus Approach?

ANSWER
There are two types of passwords in Lotus Approach and how you make changes to these depends on which type of password it is. 
The first type, database passwords, are set to protect the data in the database itself. This type of password restricts read or read/write access to the data. If a password is currently set on the database, you will need that password in order to be able to make any changes to the password. To set, reset or clear this type of password:

1. Open the appropriate database, enter the password, if required, and from the File menu, select, User Setup, Approach Preferences.

2. Select the Password tab and do one of the following in the desired password field:
- If you are setting a password for a previously unprotected database, type in the desired password. 
NOTE: You must set a Read/Write password and save the file before the Read-only password will become available for setting.
- If you wish to change or reset the current password, clear the contents of the desired password field and type in the new password.
- If you wish to completely remove database password protection, clear the appropriate password field and do not enter anything. Leave the field blank.

3. Choose OK. If you have entered or changed a password, you will be prompted to confirm it. If you have cleared the password you will not.

The second type of password, Approach file password, protects the Approach file and can consist of a number of different passwords each granting different privileges. By default there are 4 groups already created to which passwords may be configured (Manager, Designer, Editor and Reader) or you can create your own groups. 

NOTE: You will need to have the password for whatever group has been granted Change Password privileges in order to make password changes if password protection has already been set on this file. These passwords are configured from the TeamSecurity menu (File, TeamSecurity), or can be accessed from the Password tab in the Approach Preferences by clicking TeamSecurity. Once in the TeamSecurity dialog window, simply choose the group whose password you wish to take action on and make the changes much as detailed in step 2 above. 

IMPORTANT NOTE:
Never delete whatever group has Change Password privileges (by default, this is the Manager group, but this is customizable and may be different for your file). Leaving an Approach file with password protection enabled, but no group with Change Password privileges will prevent you from being able to ever assign, change or reset passwords and may leave you unable to ever alter the design of your Approach file. It is important that the first TeamSecurity you set up be for Manager access and that you keep a group with manager access so long as the file has any TeamSecurity password protection. Setting up other access roles first can lock you out of TeamSecurity and even potentially from making any further design changes as well, for example, if you select a role lower than Design for the first TeamSecurity you will be unable to access the Design of the .APR.