Title: IBM Coordination topics and event for awareness of the readiness of all widgets - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 In some scenarios, multiple page widgets on a page handle the same event. Therefore, these page widgets might need to know whether the other widgets have finished handling the event. 

ANSWER
For example, when the page broadcasts an icm.SendCaseInfo event, each handling widget begins to load its widget content. Typically, this loading is asynchronous and might take some time for widgets such as the Form widget. In the case of data widgets such as the Properties widget, Form widget, or Attachments widget, one widget might complete the loading process and prepare for user input before another. 
Subsequently, the user might begin interacting with that widget's user interface while the other widgets are still loading. Because these widgets share the same property controller instance, it becomes difficult to ascertain the controller’s initial state when testing for dirty state.

The LOADWIDGET topic and AFTERLOADWIDGET topic coordinate the loading process so that all widgets can be certain of the moment when the loading process is completed for all data widgets.

Specifically, the LOADWIDGET topic indicates that a can begin loading its content. The completion callback is called when the loading process is complete. The Properties widget responds to this topic by loading the widget in a read-only state to temporarily prevent user input.

After all widgets respond to the LOADWIDGET topic, the AFTERLOADWIDGET topic is triggered. The payload of this topic includes a timestamp that indicates the moment when all data widgets were loaded. The Properties widget responds to this topic by switching the view to an editable state to allow user input. At same time, an icm.WidgetLoaded event is broadcast with the same timestamp in payload.

This approach was adopted beginning with IBM Case Manager V5.2.0.001. However, the approach is built-in only to cross-page events that are broadcast from container widget, for example the icm.SendCaseInfo event and the icm.SendWorkItem event.