Title: IBM Weight Distribution in test suite result: no sliders - United States

Text:
RQM; slider; sliders; weight distribution; Wertigkeitsverteilung; Schiebeleisten; test suite; testsuite; suite; PM10497; RATLC01530208; TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 The IBM Rational Quality Manager client does not show sliders in the Weight Distribution of a test suite result. 

SYMPTOM
The result screen of a test suite does have a section Weight Distribution, but no sliders.

In the test result screen of a suite, you do not see the sliders, although the help in the question mark icon says that you can use the sliders. You can see the sliders in a test case result screen. 

When you click on the question mark icon, a help screen opens. This screen has the following content.. 

 


Use the sliders in this section to manually edit weight distributions for execution outcomes. For instance, even if a test fails, you might want to track that 80% of the test actually passed. If the test case has a weight of 100 points, you record that 80 points passed, while 20 points failed.
The following formulas are used to calculate the combined weight distributions for tests:

* Pass + Fail + Inconclusive <= Total Weight
* Pass + Blocked <= Total Weight
* Attempted >= Pass + Fail + Inconclusive

Note: Weight is a measure of execution effort and can be based on tester hours, units of work, or priority. For example, a test case that requires twice as much time to execute could have double the weight as another test case. Reports that measure your progress take the weight value into account when determining status. 

CAUSE
The Test Suite results page does not have sliders by design. The individual test case results compose the suite result points. However, the Help details are in error. 


This issue has been identified as a documentation defect and has been logged under APAR PM10497.



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Not applicable, because the behavior is in accordance with the product's design.