Title: IBM Application running in debug mode in the test environment not responding - United States

Text:
timeout; debug; hang; crash; locked; lock; suspended; stuck; not responding; RAD; RSA; TimeoutException; 1212755; 72577 122 000 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In Rational® Application Developer, if you are debugging an application in the test environment, the application might stop responding and eventually, time-out exceptions display; however, when you are running in non-debug mode, the same application runs successfully. 

SYMPTOM
The results you might see include: 

 * Debugger appears to "hang" or no longer responds after the server has been started. You might have needed to use End Task to show the IDE. 
 * The server seems to stay in a "Starting..." state. 
 * When debugging applications, sometimes the debugger works and sometimes it does not work. It seems to run more often after trying to start the server several times. 
 * The debugger seems to hit a breakpoint that is not set in your own code. It seems to hit random breakpoints. 
 * Your EGL program seems to hang or not respond when debugging an application that involves a server to start. 
 * If you are debugging an application that opens a pop-up window, the IDE seems to hang until the server times out.


If any of the above situations occurs when you are debugging against a remote server, in the .log file found in the .metadata directory, you might see the following exception being thrown: 

!MESSAGE Problems occurred when invoking code from plug-in: 
"org.eclipse.core.runtime".
!STACK 0
org.eclipse.jdi.TimeoutException 

or something similar to: 

!MESSAGE An exception occurred while filtering debug events.
!STACK 0
org.eclipse.jdi.TimeoutException 
RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Based on the "org.eclipse.jdi.TimeoutException", the problem could be a debugger communication time-out issue (launch and debug). 


To resolve this, follow these steps:


 1. Go to Windows > Preferences > Java > Debug
    
 2. Increase both "Debugger time-out" and "Launch time-out" value to be much larger. Try values like 180000/360000 respectively for time-out values of 3 and 6 mins.


In the case of the pop-up window causing an intermittent hang, there seems to be a timing issue that in which some non-UI thread was trying to access the UI thread while the UI thread is blocked by trying to display a pop-up screen. 

This is a limitation that any user scenario can encounter if using an internal browser to display a pop-up screen. It currently is a limitation caused by the architecture of the debugger. 
History of the eclipse bug75843 is at https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=75843 [https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=75843]. 

The only workaround is to use an external browser. 

You can set an external browser by going to Windows > Preferences > Internet > Web Browser. 

Check for an external browser. You might need to add a browser if the IDE did not detect it. 

If the startup time is still quite slow and a long timeout is required, check if the Server connection Type found in your server configuration for WebSphare Application Server v6.x or Portal Server v6.0 is using the RMI connection type. Some firewalls could be blocking the port 7777 for RMI connection in debug mode. Switching to SOAP which is more firewall compatible has improved performance of server startup in debug mode for some users. 






Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Software Architect Debugging Applications Linux, Windows 6.0, 6.0.0.1