Title: IBM Do I have the ability to separately control delete permission for folders and documents in the IBM Content Navigator user interface? - United States

Text:
security inheritance propagation folder document view default access mask permissions TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 When changing the delete permission under the folder view, and then switching to the document view, or vice versa, you see that the delete permission is granted (or denied) under both views.
Is it possible to separately control delete permission for folders and documents in the IBM Content Navigator user interface? 

CAUSE
The single "Delete" privilege in the inheritable access mask for a user or group applies to both documents and folders. This is how the IBM FileNet P8 Content Engine (CE) is designed. CE does not support separating the permission to delete a folder from the permission to delete a document.
The IBM Content Navigator (ICN) user interface (UI) for inheritable permissions splits the view of the single access mask into a folder view and a document view, since the ICN UI handles the non-inheritable access mask for a folder differently from how the non-inheritable access mask for a document is handled.

So, in the inheritable permissions case, both the folder view and document view are updating the same access mask. You can't enable or deny the delete privilege in the folder or document view without also enabling or denying the delete privilege in the document or folder view, because it is the same privilege in the same inheritable access mask. 

The ICN UI is consistent, in that it correctly shows a privilege that applies to both documents and folders as either enabled in both the Folder and Document views, or disabled in both views. Turning it on or off in one view, also turns it on or off in the other view.

The inherited security user interface (UI) is not properly representing the shared mask and is misleading the end user. The fact that this is a shared mask is out of the control of IBM Content Navigator (ICN), this is based on how IBM FileNet P8 Content Engine (CE) works.


ANSWER
The ability to separately control delete permission for folders and documents is not available in the IBM Content Navigator (ICN) user interface. The Folder and Document views are two different views of the same single inherited access mask (the CE design). Each view displays the privileges in the access mask in a manner that is specific to the type of object for that view. That is, some privileges apply only to folders (create subfolders), some only to documents (create major version, create minor version, view content), and some apply to both (view properties, edit properties, delete, manage permissions). 


When you select Reader, Author, or Owner in the Folder view it does not change privileges that apply only to documents. When you select Reader, Author, or Owner in the Document view it does not change privileges that apply only to folders. Also, ICN categorizes some shared permissions differently in the two views. For example, ICN treats the common edit properties permission as an Owner level permission for a folder and an Author level permission for a document.

If you turn a shared permission such as Delete on or off in one view, it is also displayed as turned on or off in the other view because it is the same delete privilege in the single inherited access mask. This can be verified by turning on Delete in one view, switching to the other view and seeing that Delete is also turned on there, then turning Delete off, then switching back to the original view and seeing that Delete is now turned off.

The separate views in the ICN UI for inheritable access can be confusing if you are not familiar with the CE design. There are plans to combine the folder and document views into a single common view. This change is expected to be included in an upcoming Fix Pack release for ICN 2.0.3.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Understanding security inheritance [https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSNW2F_5.2.1/com.ibm.p8.security.doc/p8psa074.htm?cp=SSNW2F_5.2.1]
Security [https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSNW2F_5.2.1/com.ibm.p8.ce.dev.ce.doc/sec_concepts.htm]
IBM FileNet Implementation Best Practices [https://www.redbooks.ibm.com/abstracts/sg247547.html?Open]
Developing Applications with IBM FileNet P8 APIs [https://www.redbooks.ibm.com/abstracts/sg247743.html?Open]