Title: IBM Setting up Datacap Navigator - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT DOCUMENTATION

ABSTRACT
 Datacap Navigator is a web client for IBM Datacap version 9.0 based on IBM Content Navigator. You set up the Datacap Navigator client by loading a plug-in and configuring repositories and desktops in IBM Content Navigator. 

CONTENT
The Datacap Navigator client provides remote users with access to the Datacap Job Monitor, the ability to run tasks such as scan and verify, and the ability to perform administration tasks such as adding users and configuring workflows. 

To set up Datacap Navigator, you first install the client as a plug-in to IBM Content Navigator. Then, you configure repositories that correspond to Datacap applications. Finally, you can customize the default desktops that are generated for Datacap Navigator. 

Prerequisites 

 * IBM Datacap version 9.0.0 is installed, Datacap applications are configured, and Datacap Web Services (wTM) are configured. 
 * IBM Content Navigator version 2.0.3 is installed and running.


Procedure To set up Datacap Navigator:


 1. Access the IBM Content Navigator administration tool. In a browser, enter a URL with the following format: 
    http://host_name:port_number/context root/?desktop=admin.
    By default, the context root is navigator. 
 2. Load the Datacap Navigator plug-in.  1. Click Plug-ins in the left pane. 
     2. On the Plug-ins page, click New Plug-in. 
     3. In the JAR file path field, enter the path to the Datacap Navigator JAR file. The JAR file (called DatacapWebPlugin.jar) is installed with IBM Datacap. The default path is C:\Datacap\tmweb.java\DatacapWebPlugin.jar
        If Datacap and Content Navigator are installed on different computers, enter the URL of the Datacap Navigator JAR file. 
     4. Click Load. 
     5. Specify the following fields. You might need to scroll down to view the fields.
        Application: Enter the name of a Datacap application that you want users to access in Datacap Navigator. For example, you can enter the name of the sample application: TravelDocs. You can make more Datacap applications available in Datacap Navigator by configuring additional repositories in step 3.
        Datacap wTM URI: Enter the web service entry point to the Datacap Web Services API. 
     6. Click Generate Default Desktop to create Datacap desktops. 
     7. Click Save and Close.
    
    
 3. Optional: Configure repositories to specify additional Datacap applications that will be available to users in the Datacap Navigator client.  1. Click Repositories in the left pane. 
     2. On the Repositories page, click New Repository and select Datacap Application. You might need to refresh your browser to view the Datacap Application option. 
     3. Specify the following fields:
        Display name: Enter the name of the Datacap application that will be displayed in Datacap Navigator.
        ID: The ID is generated automatically when you enter the display name.
        Datacap wTM URI: Enter the web service entry point to the Datacap Web Services API.
        Application: Select a Datacap application. It might take a few seconds for the list to be populated with application names. If the list is not populated, verify that the URI is correct and Datacap Web Services (wTM) are configured correctly. Then try again.
        Default Station: Enter the default station that will be associated with the application for all Datacap Navigator users. After logging on to Datacap Navigator, users can change the station in the user settings Global tab. 
     4. Click Connect and log in to the application. 
     5. Click the Configuration Parameters tab. 
     6. Select the columns that you want to display by default in Datacap Navigator on the Job Monitor and Task List pages. 
     7. Click Save and Close. 
     8. Optional: Repeat this procedure to make additional applications available in Datacap Navigator.
    
    
 4. Optional: Customize the Datacap desktops that you created in step 2.f. The following steps describe some of the default desktop settings that you might want to change.  1. Click Desktops in the left pane. 
     2. Select a Datacap desktop to customize and click Edit. 
     3. On the General page in the Authentication area you can specify the repository (Datacap application) that is opened by default when you start Datacap Navigator. You can also limit access to specific users or groups. 
     4. Click the Repositories tab. You can specify the Datacap applications to expose in the desktop. 
     5. Click the Layout tab. 
        In the Desktop Features area, you can add or remove access to IBM Content Navigator features. For example, select Browse to enable browsing in the repository from the Datacap Navigator interface. When you select the Browse feature, a Browse icon is added to the Datacap Navigator window in the left pane.
        In the Additional Desktop Components area, you can choose whether to show or hide document thumbnails, the global toolbar, and the status bar. 
     6. When you are finished customizing the desktop, click Save and Close.