Title: IBM Why is the IBM Transformation Extender Advanced speresource-packhc.bat, speresource-packedi.bat and / or speresource-packfsp.bat file missing? - United States

Text:
healthcare edi x12 hipaa swift TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Why is the IBM Transformation Extender Advanced speresource-packhc.bat, speresource-packfsp.bat and / or speresource-packedi.bat file missing? 

CAUSE
There are several reasons why IBM Transformation Extender Advanced (ITXA) speresource-packhc.bat, speresource-packfsp.bat and / or speresource-packedi.bat file would be missing. One of those is that the IBM Transformation Extender (ITX) Design Studio was not installed prior to when ITXA Pack for Healthcare Payer, ITXA Pack for Supply Chain EDI and / or ITXA Pack for Financial Payments were originally installed. Another reason would be that during the ITXA pack installation process, the design elements feature was not checked when installing the pack. A third possible reason is that the ITX Design Studio was not installed with the "Run as administrator" option. 

ANSWER
 

 1. If ITX Design Studio was not installed with the "Run as administrator" option  1. Uninstall the ITX Design Studio 
     2. Reinstall the ITX Design Studio, this time using the "Run as administrator" option 
     3. Continue with the following steps.
    
    
 2. If ITX Design Studio was installed with the "Run as administrator" option  1.  Start the IBM Installation Manager. 
     2.  Select the Modify option. 
     3.  When presented with Modify Packages screen, select "IBM Standards Processing Engine 9.0.0" and click on Next. 
     4.  Select the appropriate Translations and click on Next. 
     5.  Select "Expand All" for the associated Standards Processing Engine Packs. 
     6.  Ensure that both the "WTX map resources" and respective pack's "design elements" boxes are checked and click on Next. 
     7.  Click on the Next button in the Common Configurations screen. 
     8.  Click on Modify in the Review the summary information screen. 
     9.  Once the packs are modified, exit out of the IBM Installation Manager. 
     10. Review the "IBM Transformation Extender does not recognize ITXA after a subsequent IBM Transformation Extender installation" section of the associated ITXA Release Notes [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27040254] to ensure:  1. The SPE_INSTALL_DIR value is set properly in the ITX dtx.ini file. 
          2. The DTXHOME value is set properly in the ITXA spewtxenv.bat batch file.
         
         
     11. Change directory to the tpuiserver\usr\servers\defaultServer\lib subdirectory of your ITXA Windows installation. 
     12. Delete the wtx subdirectory. 
     13. Recreate/Create the wtx link as follows from a DOS Command Prompt window: mklink /d wtx \path\to\wtx where \path\to\wtx is the directory where you have installed ITX. For example: mklink /d wtx "C:\IBM\WebSphere Transformation Extender 9.0.0". 
    
    



PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 ITXA ITX SPE