Title: IBM Server exception: java.io.EOFException when running a Clementine\Modeler stream - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I am executing a Clementine\Modeler stream that is doing a lot of data processing on large data volumes outside of a database. Soon after I execute the stream I see this error:

Server exception: java.io.EOFException 

How can this be dealt with? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Clementine\Modeler can utilise a lot of memory when sorting large data volumes outside of a database. If system limits are hit during these operations then you could see this error as Clementine\Modeler is not aware of these limits and tries to utilise memory in excess of what the system will allow it. 

As of version 11.1.1 Clementine\Modeler is available as a 64-bit application on all platforms that it was only available as a 32-bit application previously. 32-bit versions of Clementine\Modeler Server remain only for Windows and Linux. Please see resolution 58187 for details of the memory limits for the 32-bit versions of 11.1.1 and previous 32-bit versions. From an application point of view the Clementine\Modeler Server 64-bit versions have no practical limits on the amount of memory that they can address; however there needs to be free memory available on the server at execution time for Clementine\Modeler Server to be able to use it.

If you see this error during stream execution it could be caused by system limits being hit. If you are running Clementine\Modeler Server on UNIX please get your administrator to look at the kernel process limits on resources (ulimits). If these are set on the system at a low level this could cause this error; relaxing the ulimits will alleviate the issue if this is the case. 

Another possible cause of this error is running out of physical RAM and/or swap on the server during stream execution. Now that Clementine\Modeler is available as a 64-bit application it can address a lot more memory than when it was a 32-bit application, if that memory is not available on the machine then you could end up using all the physical RAM and swap space on the server. If this occurs you could see this error, or an "X4001:internal error: out of memory" error. Please see resolution 41791 for steps to take if you find this is occuring.

There are other, more specific, causes of the EOFException that are not related to resource issues; please search for resolutions with EOFException as a keyword to see if any of these apply to your installation

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Modeler forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/modeler/?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 32183