Title: IBM Creating a new user in IBM Smart Analytics System cluster - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How to create a new user in IBM Smart Analytics System cluster ? 

ANSWER
When you create new users in the system cluster, take the following guidelines into consideration :

1. All operating system users must have the same user ID (UID) on all nodes in the cluster. Verify that a UID is available on all nodes before you create an operating system user. To ensure a consistent UID across the cluster, create the user on the management node first, and then create the users on all nodes in the cluster.

2. Define the same home directory for a user on all nodes. The home directory '/dwhome' is persistent and exists on all of the nodes.

Before you create a user, consider the home directory requirements for the user.

1. Core warehouse DB2 users: The DB2 instance owner (bculinux), DB2 fenced user (bcufenc), InfoSphere Warehouse administrative user (dweadmin), and the Optim Performance Manager user (db2opm) have their home directories under the '/db2home' instance home directory. The instance home directory is GPFS mounted across the management node, administration node, data nodes, and standby nodes. Extra DB2 users define their home directory under the '/db2home' directory.

2. Core warehouse users that do not use the DB2 database: Extra non-database users are recommended to define their home directory under the '/dwhome' directory. The /home directory is only a local directory and not persistent across all of the core warehouse nodes.

3. Warehouse tools users: Define their home directory under the '/dwhome' directory which is persistent and exists across all of the nodes.

To create new users, you require root authority.

Here is the procedure to create a new user :

1. From the management node, identify the next available UID by running the following command:

cat /etc/passwd | cut -d: -f 3 | sort -n

The third colon delimited field that represents the UID for each user in the passwd file is picked out and sorted to produce a list of ascending user IDs. In the following example output you can see that the highest UID is 1002. The next available UID is therefore 1003.
...
1000
1001
1002

2. If the user is a core warehouse DB2 user or non-database user that will have a home directory under the '/dwhome' directory:

a. Create the user and their home directory on the management node. Specify the -m flag to create the local home directory on the shared /dwhome file system, as shown in the following sample command:

useradd -d /dwhome/user02 -m -u 1003 user02

where user02 represents the user name.

b. Create the user on the core warehouse nodes. Do not specify the -m flag because the home directory is already created on the /dwhome file system, as shown in the following sample command:

xdsh bcucore "useradd -d /dwhome/user02 -u 1003 user02"

where user02 represents the user name.

3. After you created the user, set the initial password or force the user to change the password the next time they log in.

- To set the initial password on the management node for the new user, issue the following command:

passwd user02

where user02 represents the user name. Alternately, the user can log in to the management node and change the password.

- To force the user to change their password the next time they log in, issue the following command:

passwd –e user02

where user02 represents the user name.

4. After the password is changed on the management node, synchronise the password across the cluster.