Title: IBM How to control which users are visible to other users when selecting email recipients - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When "Run with options" is selected for a report for emailing and you navigate into "Edit the email options...", a link saying "Select the recipients" appears below the address boxes which when clicked will allow navigation through all user folders in the authentication provider to select a recipient. 

This document describes how to control which users are visible to other users when selecting email recipients. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 
Under "Users, Groups, and Roles" you can see all the security namespaces configured in the environment. If you click on the Set Properties of any of these, on the Permissions tab you will see the permissions associated with root of the namespace which by default get propagated down to all its descendents. Thus by default all users have Read and Traverse access to all areas of the authentication provider which is why they can find all users when selecting email recipients. 

Never change the permissions on the root of the namespace but you can restrict who has access to the folders below it by adding the required users to the Permissions tab of each folder. You should add the users that should have access to that folder to that folder's Permissions tab. No need to enter Deny permissions as once you add an entry there it is assumed all others are denied.

NOTE 1: always ensure that you grant permissions to a folder to the users that are located below that folder otherwise (if they don't have permission to a parent of where they are located) they'll definitely have problems.

NOTE 2: Do not check the box that says "Delete the access permissions of all child entries" when setting Permissions inside security namespaces as this will carry on all the way down to the indiviual users and could create some security problems for the users' My Folders.

 



RELATED INFORMATION
# [\] Cognos 8 Administration and Security Guide




Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos Business Intelligence Cognos Connection Windows 8.3 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1039956