Title: IBM When using non-integrated security, how are Cognos Controller users propagated to TM1 Data mart / Cube and how are passwords managed? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Scenario:

Native secuirty is in use with Cognos Controller, and TM1 security is set to securitymode=1 in the tm1s.cfg file for TM1. 
In Controller, Rights > Users, all users have tick boxes checked for both Controller and TM1 user. 
FAP does an Initial Publish to a TM1 Data Mart.

How do the Controller user accounts get sent to TM1 and how are passwords managed / changed? 

ENVIRONMENT
Cognos Controller 10.2 FAP with TM1 10.2. 2

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
All users in the Controller database will appear in the TM1 cube and can be seen via Architect, right click on the cube name then in context menu select Security.
The users' passwords will at this point be the same as the user's usernames.

What happens if a new user is added in Controller?

Steps: 
1. Add new user TEST5678 in Controller. 
=> In FAP Data Mart, Update Structures button becomes active. 
=> Click this and view the Data Mart logging tab, see Security Updated 
=> In Architect, new user can log on, password = User Name. 

Latest version of Controller FAP sets password to user name for any length of user name, unlike older versions where user names of less than 8 characters has no password at all set in the cube initially.

What happens if we republish (initial publish) with users having had a 
password set in TM1?

Steps: 
1. Change PW of TEST5678 to 5678TEST 
2. Stop DM, do new IP 
=> No change to password. Still 5678TEST 

What happens if we do an update structure in FAP with changed security / 
password? e.g. if a user changed their password in Controller?

Steps: 
1. In Controller, changed pw to 56785678 
=> DM log says security changed in CCR 
=> No change to password. Still 5678TEST 

Password expiry in TM1 
(See also TM1 documentation link below)

The number of days before expiration can be extended... or TM1 can be set so that there is no expiration of the password. 
This expiry can be set in Server Explorer by right-clicking on the server name and choosing Security > Clients/Groups.
In the Expiration Days column modify the number of days to expiration. 
Using 0 (zero) means that the password will not expire. 

More sophisticated approaches have been achieved using a scripted Chore - one can find examples on the Internet.

Summary:

In essence, the only time Controller affects the TM1 password is on 
initial creation of a new user. 
Then, in TM1 the password will initially be the user name until the user
changes it while logged into TM1, via right-click on the cube then Security > Change Password.

Thereafter passwords are not overwritten by data changes in Controller.
The exception is: If the whole cube is deleted from it's storage folder and a new FAP Initial Publish is done.
In this case all users will have to be re-imported to the data mart as at the beginning of this article.

RELATED INFORMATION
 TM1 password expiration (non Integrated Security) [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21454053]