Title: IBM How To Match Multiple Values Between Two View Columns - United States

Text:
Workstation/Desktop; Application Development; Views; nd6; nd 6; notes/domino 6.x domino designer; multi value; several values; many values; compare; comparison; similar; match up; map; mapping; disparity TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
Your documents contain two multivalue fields that represent a table of values, e.g. field Names contains a list of names, and PhoneNos contains a list of phone numbers, one for each name. You would like to design a view that displays the name in one column and the corresponding phone number in another column. 

For instance, say the view is categorized by the Names field. The Names field on one document contains "Angela Middle" : "Ralph Biro" and the PhoneNos field contains "504-555-2020" : "409-555-1998". You would like the view to display as follows (a second document has been added to the view for purposes of illustration):



Name Phone Company Angela Middle 504-555-2020 Blatt Pharmaceuticals Perfidy Jones 212-555-8843 Gyro Devices Inc. Ralph Biro 409-555-1998 Blatt Pharmaceuticals ANSWER
You can do this using the view column option "Show Multiple Values as Separate Entries", which is on the sorting tab of the InfoBox for Column properties. Enable this option on the Name and Phone columns, and in the Name column select Sort (either ascending or descending). Do not sort the Phone column.
[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21086498&amp;aid=1]

Note: If you sort more than one multivalue column, you will get a separate entry for each combination of values in the various columns. In the above example you would get four rows for one document, including one row that shows Angela's name and Ralph's phone number, and one that shows Ralph's name and Angela's phone number. Doing this with too many columns can seriously impair performance.

If you don't want the view's primary sort to be the first multivalue field, you can place other sorted or categorized columns to the left of that one. For example, in this case you could put the company column first and sort by company name, so that all the entries for one company are together. If you don't want to repeat the company name on each row, categorize the company name column -- you might also want to select "Categorized as flat" option for the company column.

Alternative method
Another technique that's appropriate for some applications, does not use the "separate entries" option. Instead, select "Newline" as the multivalue separator for each multivalue column. Set the row "height" in the view properties to show multiple lines per row (up to 9) and enable "Shrink rows to content".
[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21086498&amp;aid=2] 

The result is shown below. We have sorted by the single-valued field Company; sorting by a multi-value without the "separate entries" option only uses the first value, and in any case, there is only one view row for the document, so Angela and Ralph will always appear together even if there are other names that should list between them. 

Company Name Phone Blatt Pharmaceuticals Angela Middle
Ralph Biro 504-555-2020
409-555-1998 Gyro Devices Inc. Perfidy Jones 212-555-8843 This approach will work only in a limited set of conditions. We can show only the first nine values. The contents of the multivalue fields have to be short enough that they won't wrap, or the values will be misaligned. You have to use the same font in all the multivalued columns (or at least, the font has to have the same line height). 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Messaging Applications Lotus End of Support Products Lotus Domino Designer 6.x, 5.x 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 196133 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 Lotus Notes Client