Title: IBM 1.5.0.5 iFix PO05616: Missing secure attribute in encrypted session (SSL) cookie and missing HttpOnly session cookie - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When performing security testing, you might encounter a "Missing Secure Attribute in Encrypted Session (SSL) Cookie" or "Missing HttpOnly Session Cookie" error message. 

CAUSE
For the "Missing Secure Attribute in Encrypted Session (SSL) Cookie" message:
The Secure attribute (with no value) directs the user agent to use only (unspecified) secure means to contact the origin server whenever it sends back this cookie, to protect the confidentially and authenticity of the information in the cookie. 

For the "Missing HttpOnly Session Cookie" message:

If the HttpOnly flag (optional) is included in the HTTP response header, the cookie cannot be accessed through client side script. As a result, even if a cross-site scripting (XSS) flaw exists, and a user accidentally accesses a link that exploits this flaw, the browser will not reveal the cookie to a third party. 


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
For the "Missing Secure Attribute in Encrypted Session (SSL) Cookie" message, configure the secure attribute in WebSphere Application Server: 

 1. In the administrative console, click Server > all servers > <select server> > Session Management > Enable Cookies link > Restrict cookies to HTTPS sessions 
 2. Click Apply or OK. 
 3. Click Save on the console task bar to save your configuration changes. 
 4. Restart the server.


For the "Missing HttpOnly Session Cookie" message, configure manually at installation time for WebSphere Application Server:  

 1. In the administrative console, click Servers > Application Servers > server_name > Web Container settings > Web Container. 
 2. In Additional Properties, select Custom Properties. 
 3. On the Custom Properties page, click New. 
 4. On the settings page, enter:
    
    Name: com.ibm.ws.webcontainer.HTTPOnlyCookies
    Value: * 
 5. Click Apply or OK. 
 6. Click Save on the console task bar to save your configuration changes. 
 7. Restart the server.