Title: IBM EKC0307A workstation not found in configuration table - United States

Text:
Capacity; Install - Configuration - Maintenance; Performance TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 EKC0307A workstation not found in configuration table 

ANSWER
Subject: IODM Workstation Configuration Table Limits

Hello,
Per your request, I am sending you this note providing the information you 
requested on the ImagePlus IODM Workstation Configuration Table Limits.

As IODM is written, the in memory area for the IDWKCFTB (workstation configuration 
table) has space for a maximum of 9,999 workstation. That is, we only support 
loading 9,999 records for this table into memory. The way the code is written 
IODM will load up the 9,999 entries and then stops. 


To accomplish this, IODM requests the count and record length for the table 
from DB2. The count is stored in a field defined as PIC S9(04) COMP. Even though it is marked as COMP, it is still only storing up to 4 digits of count or table size. When your count went up to 10,081, it is our belief the field ended up having a value of
0081 in it. IODM then preceded to load the first 81 records in the DB2 table 
and then stopped thinking it had completed the loading of the table into memory. With only 81 records loaded you most likely did not find or have a workstation you could use handy that was in the table and preceded to get the workstation not in configuration table 
message (EKC0307A) for each workstation your tried. Which was correct for the 
amount of data loaded.

We have reviewed with a number of customers the maximum number of workstation 
they actually use and have found that about 4K is the current maximum. In most 
cases before they reach this number they split their workstations between multiple IODMs. This provided them improved come-up performance as each IODM has less workstation data to load. Another option is to clean up the table and remove all the un-used or no-longer ImagePlus used workstation. Keeping the table up-to-date is something you should be
doing as a good general practice anyway. Either of these options would allow 
you to add more workstations. 

Since this note was generated we have modified IODM 3.1.0 to support many more workstations. It can now support 80K worth. We still do not recommend running with that many workstations defined, but IODM 3.1.0 can handle it if needed.