Title: IBM Remote deploying an agent to a Windows 64-bit machine may fail if the latest Agent Compatibility bundle is not found in the TEMS depot. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 ITM 622FP1 introduced the 64-bit native Windows OS (NT) agent. On a Windows 64-bit endpoint, ITM will support the coexistence of both 32-bit and 64-bit agents. However, in order to support this coexistence, a new bundle which is the Agent Compatibility Package (AC), has been created. This Agent Compatibility Package contains both the 32-bit and 64-bit Agent Framework libraries. 

SYMPTOM
The issue may be diagnosed by examining the ITM Installation Log for the associated agent deployment. You will find a failure like the following: 

RC_INFO: The Agent Compatibility Package in version 06220100 is required but unavailable.

Affected platforms are Windows 64-bit at V6.2.2 FP1 (or later) level.



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The AC package (which can be found in the base ITM agents CD image) will need to be added to the depot in several instances.



[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21427756&amp;aid=1] NT WIX64 NT WINNT Application Agents WINNT Required Not Required Application Agents WIX64 Not Required Required 
The table above describes the scenarios where the AC package is required. The AC package is not needed in single platform scenarios where both the OS agent and the application agents are on the same platform (both WINNT or both WIX64). However, if you have a mixed environment you will need the AC package in your depot. If the user is deploying an agent that is built on a newer agent framework than the agents at your endpoint, or, you are updating an existing agent (OS agent or application agent) in this mixed environment, you will need the latest AC package in your depot. This allows both the 32-bit & 64-bit agent framework libraries to be upgraded at the same time. 

Use the following command to add the bundle to the depot: 

tacmd addbundles -i <ITM base Windows Agent CD image> -t AC