Title: IBM Web publisher "LEAD Error: General failure" - United States

Text:
lead erro; web publisher; rose; 1128687 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Web publisher "LEAD Error: General failure" 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Question:

I am trying to publish a large model using the Rose2002 Web Publisher Addin. I have successfully published similar size models before without any error. Now, with this one model, I am receiving a "LEAD Error: General failure" in the ROSEWE~1 dialog window. How can I fix this problem?


ANSWER:

Please refer to Solution Number 25523 also regarding this issue.

Another possible reason is that the model got corrupted somehow. The dialog window ROSEWE~1 will pop up if the publishing element in question is corrupted in such a way that it can not be published. When this dialog window pops up, the 'Rose Web Publisher -Publishing' dialog will display the name of the publishing element. Write down the name of the publishing element before clicking the OK button on the ROSEWE~1. 

For example:

Publishing UC-IN-26 Direct Read Client Details Sequence Diagram.

In this case, the sequence diagram "UC-IN-26 Direct Read Client Details Sequence Diagram" might have somehow been corrupted.

Once you click the OK button on ROSEWE~1, there might be other error messages following the lead error message, e.g.:

"OpenClipboard Failed" 

Just ignore these messages.

Large models are normally divided into several controlled units. Load the model and only those controlled units which lead to the loading of the corrupted diagram.

Or

Open a new Rose model and then load the controlled unit of the corrupted diagram (File -> Units -> Load). To expedite the process of publishing, you can delete other subpackages and/or diagrams except the corrupted one from the loaded controlled unit.

Now publish the model again -- it should fail. Now keep deleting a few elements at a time from the diagram untill it publishes successfully.

You may have to delete the entire corrupted diagram from the model to publish the whole model successfully.

Warning: Always keep a back-up copy of your original model in a safe location,
just in case you need your original model.



HISTORICAL NUMBER
 125998305