Title: IBM Java Debugger does not acknowledge breakpoints set in init() method of a servlet or in ejbCreate() and start() methods of an EJB - United States

Text:
DEBUG WOULD NOT WORK AT SERVER STARTUP; skipped breakpoints; debug; debugger; init; hit; stop; set; rad; rsa; rwd; servlet; breakpoint; v6; websphere; test environment; jmx; wte; session; ejbcreate; start; extension; startup-bean; startup; bean; PMR 58219442000; APAR PK06559; 1208161; RATLC00292223 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Breakpoints set in the init() method of a servlet defined as Load on Startup or the ejbCreate() and start() methods of a session bean defined as a start-up bean are skipped when the servlet is being debugged in a version 6.0.x WebSphere® Test Environment (WTE) within Rational Application Developer for WebSphere Software (RAD) v6.0.
Note: In RAD v7.x, this problem has been resolved. 

CAUSE
This is an architectural constraint with the integration of the version 6.0.x WebSphere Application Server. Since the Application Server is connected through a Java™ management extension (JMX) protocol, it needs to be started before the Rational® Application Developer debugger can access the resources running on the version 6.0.x WTE. This problem has been reported as APAR PK19154 and been fixed in RAD v7.x.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The workaround is to have the J2EE™ Web project or EJB project re-deployed after the server has been fully started in debug mode so that the breakpoint set in the init() method will be recognized. You can do this by one of these methods: 

 1. Restart the application project by right-clicking Server configuration > Restart Project, then selecting the corresponding Enterprise Application.
    
    or
    
 2. Restart the application project by right-clicking Server configuration > Add and remove projects... then remove the Enterprise Application project and click Finish. Next, right-click the Server configuration > Add and remove projects... then add the Enterprise Application project and click Finish.




RELATED INFORMATION
#Java Management Extensions (JMX) [http://java.sun.com/products/JavaManagement/]


 



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Web Developer for WebSphere Software Debugging Applications Windows, Linux 6.0, 6.0.0.1, 6.0.1.0, 6.0.1.1 Software Development Rational Software Architect Debugging Applications Linux, Windows 6.0, 6.0.0.1, 6.0.1, 6.0.1.1