Title: IBM Known issues with IBM Case Manager and Microsoft Edge browser - United States

Text:
FAQCollection TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What are the known issues with IBM Case Manager when it is used with Microsoft Edge browser for Windows 10? 

CAUSE
IBM Case Manager added support for Microsoft Edge browser for Windows 10 starting with version 5.2.1 Fix Pack 4 and later releases. However, there are known issues when you use IBM Case Manager with the Microsoft Edge browser.

ANSWER
1. Unable to open Process Designer from Case Manager Builder 


If you run Case Manager Builder in the Microsoft Edge browser, you cannot open Process Designer to edit the workflow a task.

Cause: 

The Edge browser does not support plug-ins and, therefore, does not run Java. The ability to launch and display Java applets, also known as plug-ins, is not supported in Microsoft Edge browser. Process Designer is an applet-based application, therefore, it will not run in the Edge browser.

https://www.java.com/en/download/faq/win10_faq.xml [https://www.java.com/en/download/faq/win10_faq.xml]

Workaround:

Run Case Manager Builder in another browser such as Internet Explorer 11. 

2. Unable to add or download a document when working with a case

If FileTracking is enabled in IBM Content Navigator, adding or downloading documents for a case in IBM Case Manager does not work when using Microsoft Edge browser. 

An error similar to the following will be displayed:
Your request cannot be processed. 
This problem error usually occurs in the following situations:
- The Web Browser Plug-in for Java (JRE) is not present or enabled on your workstation.
- The JRE version on your workstation is not compatible with the IBM Content Navigator version.

Cause: 

The Edge browser does not support plug-ins and, therefore, does not run Java. The ability to launch and display Java applets, also known as plug-ins, is not supported in Microsoft Edge browser. IBM Content Navigator FileTracking feature is relies on a Java applet, it cannot be invoked in the Edge browser.

https://www.java.com/en/download/faq/win10_faq.xml [https://www.java.com/en/download/faq/win10_faq.xml]

Workaround:

Run Case Manager Client in another browser such as Internet Explorer 11.

3. Unable to display an IBM FileNet eForm correctly in an IBM Case Manager Form widget.

When you open a page in Case Manager Client using Microsoft Edge browser and the page contains a form widget that displays an IBM FileNet eForm, the form does not display correctly.

The following error will be seen on the client side:
"Unable to set property 'postLeft' of undefined or null reference"

Workaround

Run Case Manager Client in another supported browser such as Internet Explorer 11, FireFox, or Chrome.

4. Using the Step Designer in IBM Case Manager Builder to dropping steps and adding routing between steps might result in incorrect or unexpected behavior.

When working with the Step Designer in Case Manager Builder using Microsoft Edge browser, dropping steps or adding routing between steps might not work as expected.

An user might encounter the following issues:
- Drag-and-drop of a step onto a swim lane might not work, as the step is not dropped onto the lane.
- Unable to re-select a step in a swim lane if not in the connector mode.
- Text associated with steps will scatter when clicking on a step.
- Adding a connectors from one step to another, the connector always gets drawn to the last created step.

Workaround

Run Case Manager Builder in another browser such as Internet Explorer 11. 
Upgrade to IBM Case Manager 5.3.0, as this is no longer an issue starting with the 5.3.0 release.


5. During runtime, clicking on the Date / Time picker icon for a Date / Time picker control does not bring up the Date / Time picker.

A user working on a case page in IBM Case Manager Client will not be able to bring up the date / time picker when clicking on the date / time picker icon on the date / time picker control.

Workaround

Click on the text area on the date / time picker control or run Case Manager Client in another supported browser such as Internet Explorer 11, FireFox, or Chrome.