Title: IBM Device connections to IBM Mobile Connect using HTTP Access Services (aka Clientless) - United States

Text:
SSL SSLV3 Poodle POODLE ciphers secured secure HTTPS TLS TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
If I turn off SSL V3 ciphers in IBM Mobile Connect to protect myself against a POODLE (Man In The Middle) attack will this break my device connections to applications like IBM Traveler, or other applications?

ANSWER
Turning off SSL V3 ciphers in IBM Mobile Connect (see related Technote 1688204 [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21688204]) should not break device connection attempts to IBM Mobile Connect. Most modern browsers, and mobile devices will support at least TLS (Transport Security Layer) 1.0 and will negotiate the ciphers used to establish a secured connection between itself and IBM Mobile Connect. iOS devices begin the negotiation currently with TLS 1.2, but again will negotiate.
What this means is that by turning off SSL V3 ciphers on IMC a device might attempt to set up a secured connection by suggesting the use of SSL V3 ciphers, but since IMC has these ciphers turned off the initial client connection attempt would fail. The client should respond to attempt the connection again using a TLS cipher, which IMC would accept presuming it has one or more TLS ciphers enabled in its HTTP Access Service. 

The Internal connection from IBM Mobile Connect to an Application Server may choose to use the HTTP Protocol (HTTP) or it could use the HTTPS (Secured) protocol. This is determined by individual installations and their security policy. The application server will determine the SSL cipher which will be used to set up a secured connection. In these cases IMC is acting as the SSL Client. It is generally accepted that the network between IMC and Applications would be controlled and therefore not of primary concern where Man In The Middle attacks are concerned. The connection between Device and IMC however is normally uncontrolled and having the SSL V3 ciphers turned off on IMC is a Best Practice. 

Scenario: Using Android, and iOS devices to connect through IMC to IBM Traveler 

 * 
 * Question: Do the Domino servers need to have a TLS update applied to the HTTP Server to be secure?
   Answer: No. Unless there is a company requirement that connections between IMC and Domino be secured with TLS then there is not an immediate cause to update Domino to include support for TLS on the HTTP server when IMC is securing the External device connections.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Configure IMC to disable SSLV3 ciphers [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21688204]
Is IMC affected by POODLE? [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21688579]