Title: IBM Failed to find all installation files - United States

Text:
RATLC00304284; fixpack; Failed to find all installation files; Rational Business Developer Extension 7.0.0.3; RBDe; 1265973 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This technote explains why IBM Rational Business Developer Extension v7.0.0.3 encounters problems installing with Rational Application Developer v7.0.0.3 or WebSphere Development Studio Client v7.0.0.2 and provides instructions to resolve the issue. 

SYMPTOM
If you install IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD) fix pack 7.0.0.3 or WebSphere Development Studio fix pack 7.0.0.2, and then attempt to install Rational Business Developer Extension (RBDe) version 7.0 with current maintenance, you may encounter one of the following problems:


 * Installation Manager might not show RBDe fix pack 7.0.0.3 as an installation choice 
 * If the fix pack is shown and you attempt to do the installation, you will receive the following message: 
   
   
   Failed to find all installation files.
   

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 

Use the latest version of IBM Installation Manager (IM v 1.3 or greater) to resolve the issue. 

You can find the download link for IM 1.3 at the Related Information section.

WORKAROUND:

To install Rational Business Developer Extension successfully, follow these steps: 

 1. Install version 7.0 of RAD or WebSphere Development Studio with current maintenance, using the normal installation procedures. 
 2. Start the IBM Installation Manager that was installed with the base product. 
 3. Use the File > Preferences menu item of the Installation Manager to add a repository by browsing to the disk1\diskTag.inf file from the Rational Business Developer Extension CD or from an extracted download package. 
 4. Go to the Install Packages feature of the Installation Manager. 
 5. Select RBDe 7.0 and press the button Check for Other Versions and Extensions. 
 6. Select RBDe 7.0.0.3 and go through the install process.




RELATED INFORMATION
#IBM Installation Manager Version 1.3 [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg24022098]






Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Business Developer Extension Installation