Title: IBM What does the message 'ASN8999D "Capture" : "ASN": nothing to spill' mean? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What does the message 'ASN8999D "Capture" : "ASN": nothing to spill' mean? 

ANSWER
If your source tables have long varchar (also called longfield) and datalink columns, there might be situations (described below) when you see these ASN8999D "nothing to spill" messages in the Capture joblog. These are only warning messages to tell users that the memory is low, and do not indicate an error condition.
The way that DB2 handles long varchar and datalinks is different from the way that it handles other data types. DB2 usually writes one log record for each insert/update/delete unless it has a long varchar or a datalink column. For example, for 1 insert without longfield/datalink column, DB2 writes 1 log record. However, for 1 insert with 2 longfield/datalink columns, DB2 writes 3 log records. 1 log record for the insert itself, 1 log record for the first longfield/datalink column and 1 log record for the second longfield/datalink column. 

The update and insert log records of long varchar and datalinks come before the log record corresponding to the actual insert/update row. While the Capture program processes the log record corresponding to a long varchar or datalink, the Capture program temporarily treats this log record as if it were a row by itself. 

As the Capture program reads the log records, it keeps the transactions in memory. While trying to get memory to store a transaction, if there is not enough memory available the Capture program finds the biggest transaction that is currently in its memory and tries to spill this transaction to a file. If this transaction that the Capture program is trying to spill happens to contain only long varchar or datalink columns and not the actual row yet, the Capture program will not spill this transaction.

At this point, the Capture program issues the message ASN8999 "nothing to spill." the Capture program will, however, still continue to attempt to spill other transactions to get the needed memory.