Title: IBM What is a 'lock code' and where can I find it? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I have been requested to provide the 'lock code' for my SPSS product and/or License Manager. How do I determine the lock code for my SPSS product/License Manager? 

ANSWER
The method for acquiring the lock code for a product installation varies by the product and operating system.
Desktop/Client Product Installations

Windows operating systems
(1) Select Start.
(2) Select 'Programs' (or 'All Programs') menu entry.
(3) Select the program folder corresponding to the product (example: 'IBM SPSS Statistics')
(4) Launch the 'License Authorization' program corresponding to the product version (example: 'IBM SPSS Statistics 24 License Authorization Wizard')
(5) Select the 'Next' button.
(6) In the lower left section of this window will appear 'Lock Code for this machine is'. Note the indicated lock code.
(7) Select the 'Cancel button'.
(8) Select the 'Yes' button. The License Authorization program will close.

MacOS operating systems
(1) Open Finder.
(2) Select 'Go' menu.
(3) Select 'Applications' entry.
(4) Select 'IBM' icon.
(5) Select 'SPSS' folder icon.
(6) Select folder icon corresponding to the product (example: 'Statistics')
(7) Select the folder corresponding to the product version (example: '24').
(8) Launch 'License Authorization Wizard' program.
(9) Select the 'License my product now' option.
(10) Select 'Next'.
(11) In the lower left section of this window will appear 'Lock Code for this machine is'. Note the indicated lock code.
(12) Select the 'Cancel button'.
(13) Select the 'Yes' button. The License Authorization program will close.


License Manager

License Manager on Windows Operating Systems
(1a) Open an Administrator Command Prompt. 
(1b) The Command Prompt title bar must read 'Administrator: Command Prompt' or the procedure may not execute properly.
(2a) Change directory ('cd') to the License Manager installation directory. 
(2b) If unsure as to the location of the License Manager installation directory, see TechNote 1989514 [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21989514].
(3) Execute the following command: echoid
(4) The response will include a value associated with 'Locking code 1'.
(5) This is the License Manager lock code.

License Manager on Linux [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21484024]




Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics SPSS Amos Business Analytics SPSS Modeler Business Analytics SPSS Text Analytics for Surveys