Title: IBM Viewing, streaming, and redacting email documents with IBM Daeja ViewONE - United States

Text:
email streaming pagination redaction TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Does IBM Daeja ViewONE support pagination, streaming, and redaction of emails? 

ANSWER
IBM Daeja ViewONE Version 4.1.5 provides an alternative email rendering mechanism for both ViewONE Professional and ViewONE Virtual editions. This new rendering mechanism supports the display of EML (MIME RFC 822) and MSG (Microsoft Outlook and Exchange) formats as paginated content, and allows for streaming and redaction of emails. It requires the IBM ViewONE Office Module to be licensed. To redact emails, the IBM ViewONE Permanent Redaction module is also required. 

Enabling the new email renderer:
The new renderer is not used by default, and emails will render the same way as in version 4.1.4.
A HTML parameter called emailRenderer can be set on the client to control which renderer is used. 
Add this parameter to the client and set the value to 2 to use the new renderer.

For more information on the emailRenderer HTML parameter: emailRenderer HTML parameter [http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSTPHR_4.1.5/com.ibm.viewone.configuring/dvopr479.htm]

Streaming:
When document streaming is enabled, and the email or its attachments are opened, they are streamed from the server to the client as individual pages. An attachment is streamed only if it is a streamable document type; otherwise, it is sent to the client as a whole document. To get a consistent viewing experience, all fonts that are used in the documents must be installed on the server. If the fonts in use are not installed, they are substituted with other available fonts and might display differently.

For information on configuring the streaming modulem see Configuring the client for document streaming [http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSTPHR_4.1.5/com.ibm.viewone.install/dvoin027.htm]

Permanent redaction:
When permanent redaction is enabled, you can redact the content of the main email, including header information such as the Subject, To, and From fields and the textual list of attachments. However, if the email contains attachments, you are able to view the attachments when redacting but you are not be able to redact the attachments. A copy of the redacted email is output as a TIFF file. 
In IBM Daeja ViewONE Professional, you must also stream the emails to be able to redact them.

For information on configuring the redaction module, see Configuring the client for redactions [http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSTPHR_4.1.5/com.ibm.viewone.install/dvoin029.htm]

Annotation migration:
When opening emails which have saved annotations and the older email rendering mechanism had previously been used, the annotations do not appear in the same place. A new HTML parameter called emailUseAnnotationDefinedModule can be set to control what actions to take for this situation. This parameter can have the following values:


 * always: The default behavior is to always attempt to use the renderer that is defined in the annotation. If the renderer that is defined in the annotation is not the same as the renderer defined for the viewer, the email open operation stops and displays an 'Annotations migration failure error' message. 
 * never: The renderer that is defined in the annotation is never used. Instead, the annotation is opened by using the renderer specified for the viewer. 
 * prompt: The user is prompted that the annotations were created using a different renderer, giving them the option to open using the renderer defined for the viewer or attempt to open with the renderer that is specified in the annotation.


Support for the new email renderer in IBM Content Navigator:
The new email renderer is supported in IBM Content Navigator V2.0.3 FP5, but redaction and streaming is not. The incompatibility is due to Navigator not setting up emails as a streamable and redactable document type.





Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Enterprise Content Management Daeja ViewONE Not Applicable Platform Independent 4.1.5 Professional, Virtual