Title: IBM Missing contents of Decision Tables after Synchronization between Rule Studio and Rule Team Server - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When a new project is created on Rule Studio by retrieving it from Rule Team Server (RTS) through Synchronization, the contents of the Decision Tables are sometimes empty. The workspace logs show "org.xml.sax.SAXParseException: Premature end of file". Why is this happening and how can it be avoided? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 

Synchronization is a very memory intensive operation. 

If not enough memory has been provided to Rule Team Server, it is possible that contents of certain elements such as Decision Tables are not retrieved by the Rule Studio.

The Decision Table files (.dta) get created on the local file system, but they are empty. When the Rule Studio tries to open the empty .dta files, it throws the exceptions "org.xml.sax.SAXParseException: Premature end of file" seen in the workspace logs (in the .metadata folder).

This is a sign that not enough memory resources is allocated.

You should make sure that RTS has been started with enough memory by setting the maximum heap size (1024 MB or greater), using the JVM argument -Xmx. Also make sure you have set the initial heap size to a reasonable amount (such as 512 MB), using the JVM argument -Xms.
In addition, you should do an analysis of memory usage to adjust your JVM settings correctly for the memory requirements for your environment. 

For more detailed recommendations on Synchronization performance and configuring JVM memory settings, please see the Technote "Performance issue when doing Synchronization between Rule Studio and Rule Team Server [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21425548]".

RELATED INFORMATION
#Synchronization issues between Rule Studio and RTS [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21584855]


 



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Integration IBM Operational Decision Manager Platform Independent 7.5 Enterprise Business Integration IBM Operational Decision Manager Platform Independent 8.0