Title: IBM Known Issues: IBM FileNet Content Manager and IBM Content Foundation V5.5.0 - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT DOCUMENTATION

ABSTRACT
 This notice documents issues in the 5.5.0 release of FileNet Content Manager. 

CONTENT
The following issues have been observed in the 5.5.0 release:


Installation Known Issues:

Incorrect tsm100 libraries on zLinux platform

The zLinux installer for the Content Platform Engine server installs the tsm100 libraries for the Linux platform instead of the libraries for the zLinux platform.</p> 

To work around this issue, perform the following steps:

1. Run the zLinux Content Platform Engine installer as planned to install the Content Platform Engine server on the zLinux system.

2. After the installation completes, locate the folder named tsm100 on the zLinux installation media for the Content Platform Engine or downloaded installation files.

3. Copy the tsm100 folder from the root directory of the expanded installation media image to overwrite the tsm100 folder that was created by the installer in the specified Content Platform Engine installation location, for example, .../FileNet/ContentEngine/tsm100.</p>


Installation text files on AIX require manual editing

For AIX installations, two included text files require manual editing. The version.txt and silent_install.txt files have extraneous ^M characters that must be manually removed. This issue can be found in the Content Platform Engine Client, Case Foundation, and Content Search Services installation files.

You can use the following vi command to remove the characters:

:%s/^M//g 


A Windows-only installation option displays in a non-Windows silent installation sample file

A new silent_install.txt construct was added to support the specification of the Process Designer JRE directory path for use by the thick-client Process Designer tool. This construct is only used by the Windows installer. However this entry is currently present in the silent_install.txt sample file for all platforms. The presence of the InstallAnywhere variable "USER_JRE_INSTALL_DIR" in the silent_install.txt file has no impact when it is used on a non-Windows system. You can safely ignore this construct during silent installations on non-Windows systems.


The Content Platform Engine Client installer provides invalid component choices

The Content Platform Engine Client installer presents a choice to install the client for the following components that are no longer included for the product.


 * Application Engine 
 * IBM FileNet Services for Lotus Quickr 
 * Process Simulator 
 * Rules Connectivity Framework 
 * Workplace XT


Do not choose these components for installation. Installation of the components is not supported. 


Deployment Manager issues: 

Graphical User Interface issues with FileNet Deployment Manager on some versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 7.x and SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES) 12.x 

FileNet Deployment Manager for Content Platform Engine V5.5.0 was updated to run 
as a 64-bit application under Eclipse 4.6.3 with IBM JAVA 1.8. Depending on the system packages installed, issues with the Graphical User Interface can occur on newer versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 7.x and SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES) 12.x . 

If you encounter issues with the user interface on one of these platforms, run all export, convert, and import operations by using the command-line interface (CLI) instead of the graphical user inteface. 

Refer to the following FAQ technical notice for more information: " How do I use FileNet Deployment Manager Command Line on a Linux server [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21696513]?" 


Administration Console for Content Platform Engine issues: 

Extraneous information on the Indexes tab in the Administration Console for Content Platform Engine 

The Indexes tab on the Table Definitions area in the Administration Console for Content Platform Engine includes a column called Index Created with LOWER(). This displayed column can be ignored. The Force Case Insensitive Search setting that can be enabled on the Object Store no longer creates indexes with the LOWER() parameter. Your DBA can create any appropriate additional indexes. For index information, see the database schema.