Title: IBM How to resume a Test Suite that was started in a previous Rational Quality Manager session - United States

Text:
rqm; tser; clm TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do you resume a Test Suite that was started in a previous IBM Rational Quality Manager (RQM) session? 

CAUSE
Starting in RQM 3.0.1, the Test Suite Execution Record type was created. 

This resulted in a change in how you can resume a test suite that was started in a previous session.


ANSWER
There are three possible ways to open the Test Execution Console for a specific test suite. 

Follow one of the following methods to resume a Test Suite that was started in a previous RQM session.

Option 1: 

 1. Open the Quality Management application in your browser 
 2. Open the Test Suite 
 3. Open the Test Suite Execution Records (TSER) section in the Test Suite 
 4. Find the TSER that you were running 
 5. Click on the image in the Last Result column 
 6. This will open the Previous Results tab 
 7. Find the result that you want to continue (listed as In Progress) and click the image under Test Suite Execution Result 
 8. The Test Suite Execution Console for your test script will open (see "After Opening the Test Execution Console" for remaining steps)




Option 2:  1. Open the View Test Suite Execution Records tab 
 2. Find the TSER you were running 
 3. Click on the image in the Last Result column 
 4. This will open the Previous Results tab 
 5. Find the result that you want to continue (listed as In Progress) and click the image under Test Suite Execution Result 
 6. The Test Suite Execution Console for your test script will open (see "After Opening the Test Execution Console" for remaining steps)




Option 3  1. Open the Execution Console 
 2. Select the test suite that you were running 
 3. The Test Suite Execution Console for your test script will open (see "After Opening the Test Execution Console" for remaining steps)







After Opening the Test Execution Console  1. Find the Test Suite Execution Record that you want to resume 
 2. Click the Start Manual Test link (this may be a percentage link instead, depending on the progress made) in the Progress column 
 3. This will resume your test suite execution