Title: IBM How to generate license keys based on the same Rational License Key Server machine from multiple license accounts - United States

Text:
Multiple license accounts; LKC; license generation; license key center; merging licenses TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do you generate license keys based on the same IBM Rational License Key Server machine from multiple license accounts from IBM Rational License Key Center Website? 

CAUSE
You would like to know if the license keys needs to be merged when generating license keys from multiple license accounts or would it get automatically merged.

ANSWER
Procedure:


 1. Login into IBM Rational License key Center Website [http://www-01.ibm.com/software/rational/support/licensing/]
    
    If you have access to multiple license accounts then all those license accounts would be displayed in the home page after logging into the website
    
    
 2. Select the first license account from the list where license keys needs to be generated
    
    
 3. Follow the instructions on how to generate license keys [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21605567] from IBM Rational License Key Center Website
    
    Once the license key is generated, do not download the license keys yet since the license keys from other license account is yet to be generated
    
    
 4. Navigate to the left navigation bar and select Switch Account
    
    
 5. Select the second account from where the license keys needs to be generated for the same license server
    
    
 6. Generate the license keys based on the same license server information
    
    Now the license keys generated will have licenses generated from first and second license account which is automatically merged.
    
    Note: When providing the hostname and host id to generate license keys from the second license account ensure the same casing is used as compared to the first license account.
    
    Example: If upper-case is used in the first license account to generate license keys and small-case is used in the second license account to generate the license keys then the license keys wont be merged automatically where manual merging steps is needed.