Title: IBM TPF Toolkit V4.0 - Product readme.txt - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT README

ABSTRACT
 Readme file for IBM TPF Toolkit version 4.0 

CONTENT
 

Table of Contents
-----------------
1.0 System requirements and installation
2.0 Migration
3.0 Product limitations
4.0 Known problems
5.0 National Language Translations
6.0 Additional PUT Level Documentation Packages
7.0 Where to find more information


1.0 System requirements and installation
----------------------------------------

Please see install.txt for hardware and software requirements and instructions for installing
IBM TPF Toolkit.


2.0 Migration
-------------


2.1 Migrating from previous versions of IBM TPF Toolkit
TPF Toolkit V4.0 will automatically migrate your settings when you migrate from previous
versions of TPF Toolkit. Refer to the Migrating section in the on-line help for step-by-step 
instructions on migrating to TPF Toolkit V4.0.

2.2 Update site project Migration from v3.6.x to v4.0
The custom update site mechanism has changed in TPF Toolkit V4.0. If you are using an 
enterprise update site project to deploy customizations to your end users, you need to 
create a new TPF configuration project. The migration instructions can be found in the 
"Installing, migrating, and configuring > Migrating > Migrating to IBM TPF Toolkit V4.0.0 > 
Migrating custom update sites to TPF Toolkit V4.0.0" 
section of the help. You can create a new TPF configuration project using the instructions provided 
in the "Tutorials > Creating and deploying custom TPF Toolkit updates" section 
of the help.

2.3 Remote Index generation host script renamed
If you have custom host scripts that refer to the host script file for generating remote indices, 
you will need to update your custom script. The remote index generating script shipped with the 
TPF Toolkit host parts has been renamed to remoteIndexScript.sh and moved from the "lib" directory 
to the "bin" directory on Linux on System z and the "config" directory on z/OS UNIX



3.0 Product limitations
-----------------------

These are the known limitations in the product that may or may not be addressed in future updates.

3.1 No drive-letter path association for remote files accessed via Remote System Explorer framework

User defined custom actions that rely on a drive-letter path to access remote files will not 
work if the remote files are accessed using RSE. Only remote host systems accessed via NFS and SMB 
mounts can be resolved with a drive-letter path. However, TPFTool command line interface provides 
a list of services that can be used as an alternative. 

3.2 Cache size limit causes problem when operating in disconnected mode

The Remote System Explorer (RSE) framework maintains a cache of remote files that have been 
downloaded. RSE allows you to set a maximum size for the cache and it deletes files in the cache 
to maintain the specified size limit. When you work in disconnected mode, you are working with 
files that exist in the cache. If a size limit is set on the cache, you run the risk of losing some 
files when cache maintenance is performed.

3.3 No global refresh is made when files are renamed or deleted

If you have the same file showing in multiple filters in TPF Toolkit, and you rename or delete the 
file from one filter, it is not updated in the other filters that reference the file. Since file 
properties use the filename as the key, updating a file in a filter will update the corresponding 
properties for that file in that filter. When filters are not appropriately updated for changes 
(such as rename or delete), you risk losing the properties you have set for the file.


4.0 Known problems
------------------

This section lists the known problems in the current version of the product. Fixes for these 
problems may be provided in a future interim fix or version update.

4.1 Multi-user Single System Setup Requirements

If you are running IBM TPF Toolkit in a multi-user single system environment (for example, Citrix(R)) 
you must configure a unique location for the user workspace (-data c:\workspace) and the user 
configuration (-configuration c:\workspace\configuration) directories for each user in the 
TPFToolkit.bat file. Look in the comment section of the TPFToolkit.bat file for an example.

4.2 Problem displaying HLAsm context sensitive (F1) help on 64-bit Windows

Requesting HLAsm context sensitive help on 64-bit Windows does not display the Principles of 
Operations in the workbench help window. The workbench help window uses the 64-bit version 
Internet Explorer to display the help, which does not support the Adobe Reader browser plugins. 
Thus as a result, context-help requests (F1) when editing HLAsm files in System z LPEX will result 
in the Principles of Operations being opened in Adobe Reader and not positioned to the appropriate 
mnemonic.
To work around this issue, change your preferences to open help in an external browser that 
supports Adobe Reader plugins (like Firefox or Chrome)
a) On the General > Web Browser preference page, select Use external browser, and ensure that the 
browser selected External Web Browser is a browser that supports Adobe Reader plugins.
b) On the Help preference page, select In an external browser from the combo box for Open help 
contents.


5.0 National Language Translations
----------------------------------

The IBM TPF Toolkit V4.0 package contains national language translations from V3.6. 
An update to the translation package for Japanese, Korean, French, and Simplified Chinese will 
be shipped in an Interim Fix in the near future. Updates to selected documentation translations 
for French will also be shipped in the same Interim Fix mentioned above.


6.0 Additional PUT Level Documentation Packages
----------------------------------------------- 

In an effort to reduce the product size, the shipped install image only contains TPF 4.1 PUT 25
and z/TPF 1.1 PUT08 documentation. If you require back level documentation (for example, 
TPF 4.1 PUT 13-24) it may be downloaded from IBM. See download instructions in the online help here:
Help->Help Contents->Installing, migrating, and configuring->Installing->Optional features


7.0 Where to find more information
----------------------------------

- For information about installing TPF Toolkit, see install.txt.
- For general information about the product, refer to the online help sections "Product Overview" 
and "Getting Started".
- Product news, updates and fixes are available from the TPF Toolkit website: 
www.ibm.com/software/awdtools/tpftoolkit. For FAQs, lists of known problems
and fixes, and other support information, check the Support page at that site.