Title: IBM How to import license keys for Appscan Standard version 9.0.3.6 and earlier - United States

Text:
Appscan; Appscan 7.8License; Licensing; License Key; FLEXlm; flexlm; Authorized User; AU; Nodelocked; NL; Floating; FLT; LKAD; Appscan LKAD; Rational License; Rational Licensing; import; importing; Standard; Developer; Express; pointing to license server TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do you configure IBM Security Appscan Standard version 9.0.3.6 (and earlier) to use Node-locked or Floating User license keys? 

ANSWER
AppScan Standard uses two types of license keys: Node-locked or Floating User. Depending on which type of the license you have, you use a different procedure to import them. 
Note: The Node-locked license keys are called, "Authorized User" license keys in the License Key Center. 


A) Importing Node-locked license keys

To import Node-locked (Authorized User) license keys you use the License Key Administrator (LKAD) that is installed together with the AppScan Standard product. You do not need to install License Key Server for this type of license key. 



 1. Launch Appscan Standard.
    
    
 2. Go to Help > License > Load IBM Rational License.
    This will launch Appscan's version of the License Key Administrator (LKAD).
    On Launch, the License Key Administrator wizard will open. 
    
    
 3. Select Import a Rational License File in the wizard and click Next.
    
    
 4. Select Browse and navigate to your license file (.upd file) and click Open, then click the Import button.
    
    
 5. You should now see the imported license listed in the LKAD window. Close LKAD. 
    
    
 6. In the AppScan License dialog, click the refresh icon (see the button in the screen capture below) to update your Appscan Standard instance with the new license key.
    
    Refreshing will change the license status which will be displayed in the License information section of the License dialog (as in the screen capture below): 
    
    [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21381093&amp;aid=1]
    
    Note: AppScan edition (Standard or Express) is shown in this window as well. In the above example "Edition: Standard". 





B) Importing Floating license keys 

To import Floating license keys you use the License Key Administrator (LKAD) associated with the License Key Server, and then you configure the License Key Administrator associated with AppScan Standard to point to the License Key Server. You need to have License Key Server installed for this type of license key. 

Note: If the License Key Server and Appscan Standard are installed on the same machine, they may utilize the same or different License Key Administrator. 

 * Import the Floating License key to the License Key Server
    1. On the machine where the License Key Server is installed, double click the .upd license file. This will invoke the LKAD utilized by the License Key Server. 
       If you do not have any License Key Server installed, install it. 
       
    2. You will be asked if you would like to import the file.
       Click Import.
       
    3. Next you will be notified that the license server software must be stopped then restarted.
       This action will update the license file and MUST be done in order for the new license key to be recognized.
       Click Yes.
       
    4. Once completed you will be asked if you would like to exit the LKAD.
       Click Yes, to close LKAD.
       
       
   
   
 * Point the Appscan LKAD to the License Key Server  1. Launch AppScan Standard.
       
    2. Go to Help > License > Load IBM Rational License.
       This will launch Appscan's version of the LKAD.
       
    3. Select Point to Rational License Server to get my licenses in the "License Key Administrator Wizard". 
       Click Next.
       
    4. Enter Server Name (name of the machine on which the License Key Server is installed).
       Enter Port only if the port used is other than the default port, that is 27000.
       Click Show Licenses to display your Appscan Standard License.
       Click Finish.
       
       Note: In some cases you will get the advanced Settings > Client/Server Dialog instead of the simple dialog described in Step #4.
       
    5. Close LKAD and return to the Appscan License dialog.
       
    6. In the AppScan License dialog, click the refresh icon (see the button in the screen capture below) to update your Appscan Standard instance with the new license key.
       
       Refreshing will change the license status which will be displayed in the License information section of the License dialog (as seen in the screen capture below): 
       
       [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21381093&amp;aid=2]
       
       Note: AppScan edition (Standard or Express) is shown in this window as well. In the above example "Edition: Standard". 
   
   

RELATED INFORMATION
 A Japanese translation is available [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21571013]