Title: IBM Notes Spell Checker loads slowly - United States

Text:
ridiculously slow; extremely; doesn't load; drags; takes forever; a minute; starts; loads; runs; user dictionary; check spelling; spelling checker; startup; appears; displays; shows up; late; hung; hangs; freeze; locks up; ibm corporation; ibm spell checker; starting spell checker; Spell checker initialization; R5; ND6; Notes Doesn't Cleanup the NLP*.tmp files; R5; ND6; 1138400 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
When you start the spell checker in Notes Client (for example, by selecting Edit > Check Spelling), the spell checker takes a long time to load. The startup on some machines is instantaneous, while on others it takes as long as 30 seconds to start.

ANSWER






Cause #1: This issue can be caused by a User.dic file that contains some corruption. 

A workaround is to rename the User.dic file in the Notes \Data directory (for example, rename it to User.old) and restart the Notes client. This process creates a new User.dic file in the \Data directory. 




Cause #2: The issue can also be caused by a large number of temp files existing on the local machine. 

The spell checker stores temporary files (NLP*.tmp) on the system that it should delete automatically after completing the spell check process. Sometimes these files are not deleted. Over time, the number of temp files can grow causing the spell check performance issue. 

Workaround: 
Rename the User.dic in the Notes /Data directory, then restart Notes. If spell check still runs slowly after the User.dic file is re-created (upon restart), search the machine for "NLP*.tmp" files and delete them. 





Important Note: When you rename the User.dic file and restart Notes, you are essentially starting with a new User.dic file. This means you will lose any customized words that you previously added to your user dictionary during past spell checking sessions. RELATED INFORMATION
 New Java based dictionaries in Notes 7.0.2 might experi [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21265050]




HISTORICAL NUMBER
 179058 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 Lotus Notes Client