Title: IBM Secure connections stop working between IBM Mobile Connect and Authentication/Application servers - United States

Text:
secure connections; LDAP server; SSL TLS certificates Bind 636 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
Connections configured to be secured between IBM Mobile Connect (IMC) which were working fine suddenly stop working. External symptoms may manifest as Devices being unable to Connect to IMC, or Synchronize their mail, contacts, calendars, etc.

CAUSE
There may be several causes for the secured connections to various authentication or application servers no longer working. Listed here are the most common reasons. 

ANSWER
1) The destination server was updated with a new certificate to secure the connection. If it is just a new certificate, then IMC will need to get a copy of the root signer certificate and any intermediate signers (if there are any) and store them in the configured kdb (Key Database) file used to secure the connection. This will likely be in the Directory Services Server (DSS) configuration, or the HTTP Access Services definition for the server. 

2) If the target server has been updated then this suggests that the cause of the problem will be that it likely does not allow older security protocols to secure connections. Depending on the age and build date of IBM Mobile Connect the issue could be the security protocols being suggested to secure the connection. If the connection is between IMC and an LDAP server for example, IMC may have older built in LDAP Client libraries which are likely suggesting the use of older security protocols like SSL V2 or SSL V3 or even older TLS protocols which have been found to have certain vulnerabilities. Since IMC acts as a Client when establishing a secured connection to the configured LDAP server it too needs to have its internal bundled LDAP libraries updated to use the updated and newer security protocols which the LDAP server supports.

The recommended course of action here is to obtain the latest IMC builds which contain updated logic for securing IMC internal connections as well as those for connections to LDAP servers. 
http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27009682 [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27009682]

3) A less likely but possible cause of the problem is that the Administrator ID or Password has changed and needs to be updated in the IMC DSS configuration on the General Tab.

Note: If the wg.log is examined (/var/adm (UNIX) or C:\Program Files\IBM\Connection Manager\logs (Windows) you may see a message like this which indicates IMC is unable to bind to an LDAP server:

[WARN] AUTH_LdapBindThread: failed to bind to ldap server 'X.X.X.X' (rc=0x59/Bad parameter to an ldap routine)