Title: IBM StoredIQ for Legal 2.0 documentation updates - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT DOCUMENTATION

ABSTRACT
 The following IBM StoredIQ for Legal Version 2.0 documents have missing or incorrect information. 

CONTENT
Administering IBM StoredIQ for Legal


 (Administering_IBM_StoredIQ_for_Legal.pdf)

Issue: The following information is missing: Restarting the IBM StoredIQ for Legal server

Addition: 
Restarting the IBM StoredIQ for Legal server

To restart the IBM StoredIQ for Legal server, you must restart the VMWare virtual machine (VM) guest operating system (OS). Restart the guest OS using the following steps:

1. Log in to the VMWare vSphere client
2. Select View > Inventory > VMs and Templates
3. Select the StoredIQ for Legal virtual machine
4. Right click
5. Select Power
6. Select Restart Guest
Result: An entry is displayed in the Recent Tasks section at the bottom of the vSphere client window. The entry includes "Initiate guest OS reboot" under the Name column.
7. Right click
8. Select Open Console
Result: A console window is displayed that shows the guest OS is rebooting. When the reboot completes, a login prompt is displayed in the console window.

Alternatively, you can use the following steps:

1. Log in to the VMWare vSphere client
2. Select View > Inventory > VMs and Templates
3. Select the StoredIQ for Legal virtual machine
4. Select Inventory > Virtual Machine > Power > Restart Guest
Result: An entry is displayed in the Recent Tasks section at the bottom of the vSphere client window. The entry includes "Initiate guest OS reboot" under the Name column.
5. Right click
6. Select Open Console
Result: A console window is displayed that shows the guest OS is rebooting. When the reboot completes, a login prompt is displayed in the console window.

Also, you can restart the server by typing a command in a VMWare vSphere console or SSH session as follows:

1. Log in to the VMWare vSphere client
2. Select View > Inventory > VMs and Templates
3. Select the StoredIQ for Legal virtual machine
4. Right click
5. Select Open Console
A console window is displayed that contains a login prompt.
6. Log in as user "root"
7. Type "reboot" and push the Enter key.
Result: After the server has restarted successfully, the login prompt is displayed in the console window.

Note: After the guest OS restarts successfully, you must wait a short time - 5 minutes or less - before the StoredIQ for Legal system is ready for use. However, the amount of time may vary depending on your deployment.


Section: Creating a new user

Issue: In step 2, information is missing from the following sentence:

Restriction: The User ID must comply with the following rules: 

Correction:

Restriction: The User ID, First Name, and Last Name must comply with the following rules: 


Managing legal matters 

(Managing_legal_matters_with_ IBM_StoredIQ_for_Legal.pdf) 

 

Section: Creating and sending hold notices

Issue: Information is missing from:

Step 11. Click Select Custodians. If you do not see Select Custodians, click Edit Notice Contents to collapse the section. 
Each entry in the list of custodians includes the given name and surname of the custodian, user ID, email address, and department name. You can select custodian groups and search within them to add entries to the selection list.

Addition: 
In the Select Custodians pane, under the Groups heading, there is a list of all of the custodian groups that you can select to populate the custodians list for the notice. Each entry in the list is a web link. The web link label contains the group name and the count of the number of custodians in that group. The entries under Groups include both user-defined and predefined groups.

When you click a group name under Groups, the list of custodians in that group is displayed. For instance, if a custodian group with the name "My Group" was created in the Custodians page, an entry for "My Group" appears under Groups. When you click "My Group", the list of custodians in "My Group" is displayed and you can select custodians from the list for the notice. 

In addition to the user-defined groups that are defined in the Custodians page, the following predefined custodian groups are listed under Groups: 

 * All People 
 * Matter Custodians


When you click the All People link, a list of all custodians in the IBM® StoredIQ for Legal system is displayed. The All People link is selected by default when you open the Select Custodians page. When you click the Matter Custodians link, the list of custodians that are selected in other hold notices for the same matter is displayed. The Matter Custodians list and count are updated automatically when custodians are added to or removed from hold notices for the matter. 

You can use the Matter Custodians link to quickly see which custodians are selected in other notices for the matter and select them as custodians for the notice you are editing. 

Each entry in the list of custodians includes the given name and surname of the custodian, user ID, email address, and department name. You can select custodian groups and search within them to add entries to the selection list.