Title: IBM How do I identify my SPSS product Release version? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I would like to check/determine my SPSS product Release version. How do I do that? 

ANSWER
How to determine the Release version of the product 

Statistics Desktop/Client - Windows Operating Systems 

 1. Open Statistics. 
 2. Select the 'Help' menu. 
 3. Select the 'About' menu option. 
 4. The Release version information will display in the lower left corner of the window. Example: 23.0.0.2


Statistics Desktop/Client - Mac Operating Systems  1. Open Statistics 
 2. Select the 'SPSS Statistics' menu. 
 3. Select the 'About SPSS Statistics' menu entry. 
 4. The Release version information will display in the lower left corner of the window. Example: 23.0.0.2
    

Modeler Desktop/Client - Windows Operating Systems  1. Open Modeler. 
 2. Select the 'Help' menu. 
 3. Select the 'About' menu option. 
 4. Select the 'Additional Details' button. 
 5. The Release version information will display in the upper left of the window. Example: 16.0.0.2


License Manager - Windows Operating Systems  1. Open an Administrator Command Prompt on the License Manager host. 
 2. Change directory to the License Manager installation directory. 
 3. Execute the following command: lsver 
 4. The response with the indicate the License Manager version.


License Manager - Unix/Linux/MacOS  1. Open a terminal on the License Manager host. 
 2. Initiate a super-user (sudo) or root instance. 
 3. Change directory to the License Manager installation directory. 
 4. Execute the following command: ./lsver 
 5. The response with the indicate the License Manager version.


How To Interpret the Release version information with regard to Fix Packs 

The Release version is given in 5-digit value. Example: 23.0.0.0. The first two digits indicate the product version. Example: A value of '23' indicates version 23 of the product. The last digit indicates the Release version. A value of '0' indicates no Fix Pack has been applied; a value of '1' indicates Fix Pack 1 of the product version has been applied; a value of '2' indicates Fix Pack 2 has been applied. This pattern repeats for any Fix Pack that has been applied. RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics SPSS Modeler Platform Independent Not Applicable All Editions