Title: IBM Error: Could not write to file buffer/Unable to create file buffer - Sterling Gentran:Server for Microsoft Windows - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Error: Could not write to file buffer/Unable to create file buffer 

SYMPTOM
 Error: Unable to create file buffer. 

Error: Could not write to file buffer. 

MFC database exception encountered in Server. General error: Unable to create file buffer. 

Error generated in the Windows Event Viewer's Application Log: MFC database exception encountered in Server. General error: Unable to create file buffer.


CAUSE
An inaccessible TEMP directory will cause the errors "Could not write to file buffer" and "Unable to write to file buffer" errors to be generated.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Several TEMP directories can and usually do exist on a system. Each one is used for slightly different reasons and all or most of them need to be accessible for Gentran:Server to function properly. 


Follow the steps below to resolve the issue caused by an inaccessible TEMP directory. 

1. Verify the location of the System TEMP directory and any Windows User TEMP directories as defined within Windows Environmental Variables. 
The Gentran:Server TEMP directory is, by default, defined as the GENSRVNT\TEMP directory. 

2. Verify the amount of free disk space on the hard drive or hard drives that the System TEMP, Windows User TEMP, and Gentran:Server TEMP directories reside on. 
If any of the hard drives have very little or no free space, then space on the hard drives will need to be made by moving or deleting any unneeded files on the hard drive. 

3. If the hard drives have a large amount of free space, then check each of the TEMP directories as defined within the Windows Environmental Variables and verify that TEMP exist. 
If any of the TEMP directories do not exist as defined within Windows Environmental Variables, then they must be recreated. 

4. If the hard drives have a large amount of free space, and the TEMP directories exist as defined within Windows Environmental Variables, then verify that directories do not contain a large number of files. If a large number of file exists (even if the files are 0kb in size) in any of the TEMP directories, delete all or most of the files as possible.

Once the TEMP directories have been cleaned out and adequate space on the hard drives has been made, test the process that generated the error.