Title: IBM Unexpected configuration error occurred indexing documents in IBM P8 - United States

Text:
Failed to convert; error:-1 Unexpected configuration error occurred; text extraction cannot proceed; possible configuration problem TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

THIS DOCUMENT APPLIES ONLY TO THE FOLLOWING LANGUAGE VERSION(S):
 English 

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When indexing documents with IBM Content Search Services (CSS) some items are failing with "export error:-1 Unexpected configuration error occurred". 

SYMPTOM
Exception noted in P8 log (p8_server_error.log) as well as in the Indexing Queue object under the column Last Failure Reason in FileNet Enterprise Manager (FEM) or Administration Console Content Engine (ACCE).

"export error:-1 Unexpected configuration error occurred - text extraction cannot proceed., possible configuration problem, request will be retried again at a later time. Failed to convert"


CAUSE
The reason for this can be due to password protected documents (non zip files). It should be noted that this might not always be the case. The P8 Administrator should review the reported content by searching for it and see if it can be retrieved and opened without being challenged for a password request.

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Use FEM (FileNet Enterprise Manager) or ACCE (Administration Console Content Engine) and look at the object store's "Indexing Queue" object. Review rows with a retry count >0 and pay attention to the column "Last Failure Reason". Pick one or a couple of documents, search for them using FEM, ACCE or any other client application you are using in order to find and open the content. If a document is password protected it will prompt for a password. In a case like this the indexing engine will not be able to index the content.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
After diagnosing the problem use FEM (FileNet Enterprise Manager) or ACCE (Administration Console Content Engine) and look in the object store's "Indexing Queue" object. The rows with a retry count >0 and the above exception can be highlighted and deleted. This does not delete the actual document, only the reference to the index request.