Title: IBM What is the procedure for backing up and restoring the StoredIQ system configuration of a data server to a gateway? - United States

Text:
Backup; Restore; system configuration; util; disaster recovery TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What is the procedure for backing up and restoring the StoredIQ system configuration of a data server to a gateway? 

ANSWER
To prepare for disaster recovery, you can back up the system configuration of a StoredIQ data server to a StoredIQ gateway server. This process backs up volume definitions, discovery export records, and data server settings. It does not back up infosets, data maps, or indexes.
Before you begin the StoredIQ gateway must be manually configured to support this backup. 


 * To Backup the configuration follow these steps:  1. Configure a working StoredIQ stack. (Data server, Gateway and Appstack). 
    2. Go to the gateway. Login as util or issue the su util command as root. 
    3. Select Appliance Tools -> OK -> Enable NFS Share for Gateway. Note that it should present a message saying 'checking exports'. 
    4. Navigate to the data server in a browser using https://<data server name or IP address> and log in as admin 
    5. Navigate to the Configuration -> Backup Configuration page and select the Start backup button 
    6. Navigate to the Administration -> Dashboard page and check the "Event log" for the status information. 
    7. If desired, navigate to the /deepfs/backup directory on the gateway server to examine the files created by the backup procedure.
   
   
 * To Restore the configuration follow these steps:  1. Build a new data server which will serve as the restore point for the backup. Use the same IP address and server name as the original data server. Ensure that the original server is shutdown and not on the network. 
    2. Ensure the gateway still has it's NFS mount configured by completing (Steps 2 and 3) above. 
    3. On the data server login as util or issue the su util command as root. 
    4. Use Appliance Tools -> OK -> Restore Configuration From Backups 
    5. Enter gateway server name or IP address and select Enter 
    6. Provide the full system restore date or leave blank to restore the most recent backup 
    7. Confirm the restore by Entering 'y' and selecting Enter. Options to go back or quit are also provided at this point.
   
   

RELATED INFORMATION
 StoredIQ Backup and Restore Process Fails [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21696712]




Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Enterprise Content Management eDiscovery Identification and Collection StoredIQ Platform Platform Independent 7.5.1, 7.5.0.2, 7.5.0.1, 7.5 All Editions Enterprise Content Management Policy Assessment and Compliance StoredIQ Platform Platform Independent 7.5.1, 7.5.0.2, 7.5.0.1, 7.5 All Editions Enterprise Content Management Unstructured Data Identification and Mgmt Platform Platform Independent 7.5.1, 7.5.0.2, 7.5.0.1, 7.5 All Editions