Title: IBM About System Messages in Build Forge version 7.1.1 - United States

Text:
1389511; RATLC01291427; RATLC01291429; system messages; searchable; searching; server names; user names; usernames TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Does the 7.1.1 release of IBM Rational Build Forge offer capability with regards to searching System Messages, where I can now search using any word inside of the entire message? Server names, user names and other items previously not searchable are now able to be used as a filter option for System Messages. 

ANSWER
 

Here are some details about this new feature that should be taken into consideration: 

 

 1. All current System Messages are translated into each of the 10 supported languages
    
    
 2. Purging of a single System Message also deletes the corresponding 10 additional translated messages
    
    
 3. Space requirements for the database need to take into account about 10k in additional space per message.
    
    
 4. Database transaction log space needs to be sufficient or databases which use transaction logging to handle both the creation of new messages and deletion of old messages
    
    
 5. Performance is poor with large amounts of system messages (100k+)


Considerations: 

 1. Upgrading from a 7.0.2 or a previous system, the messages are not migrated into the Build Forge 7.1.1 system. Only new messages are translated for search capability.
    
    
 2. Upgrading from a 7.1 based system, make sure you only have a small set of messages currently in the system (preferably less than 100k), as each of these current messages becomes 10 rows in the new bf_message_translated table requiring space, and processing power.


Items currently in the system used to control message size: 

AutoClean Audit Log Days
AutoClean Error Log Days
AutoClean Info Log Days
AutoClean Warning Log Days

These four settings control how long message is kept within the system. These are, by default, set very high. The largest sum of messages a typical Build Forge install will use is the Info messages. The general recommendation is to keep around 30-60 days worth of messages unless your corporate policy or audit requirements dictates otherwise.

If you currently have a large amount of system messages, they need to be decreased prior to the upgrade to 7.1.1. The AutoClean settings are evaluated every 15 seconds. The days should be stepped down over a few intervals to gradually shrink the current message inventory.

Example:
Day 1: Set the Info Auto Clean to 5 days shorter than it currently is
Day 2: Set the Info Auto Clean to 10 days shorter than it originally was
Day 3: Set the Info Auto Clean to 15 days shorter than it originally was
etc...

This will allow you to lower the current message inventory and bring you closer to the 50-100k message count.

There is a new tool with Build Forge versions 7.1 and 7.1.1 used to archive System Messages -- bfmessages. This will ensure you only keep current messages in the database, but also have a record of the messages which have occurred.

Usage: bfmessages [-l lang_spec] [-p #:#] [-f filename]
-l lang_spec Language in which to display messages, e.g., en_US
-p #:# Paginates from line number to line number






Known Limitations 

These are the two issues now resolved in 7.1.1.1 related to the known limitations of this functionality: 
 * RATLC01291427 - Large message counts for a 7.1 DB grow a 7.1.1 upgraded DB too fast
   
   
 * RATLC01291429 - Large message counts for a 7.1.1 DB result in poor performance, or inability to view messages.