Title: IBM How to model instantiated classes with the Rose ANSI C++ add-in - United States

Text:
parameterized; instantiated; generate; ansi; c++; rose; classes; code; relation; 1120597 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 The following technote shows how you can model instantiated classes using the Rational Rose® ANSI C++ add-in. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 Using Classic C++, we used to be able to create an instantiated class and an 
instantiated relation to a Parameterized class. During code generation Rose 
would generate a typedef for the instantiated class. With ANSI® C++, when we create an instantiated class and an instantiated association to a Parameterized class, no code is generated for the instantiated class. The following example shows how we can model an instantiated class and have the ANSI C++ generate code.

Using the ANSI C++, one need not create an instantiated class or an 
instantiates association to a parameterized class. To generate code for an 
instantiated class, perform the following steps: 

 1. Create a ParameterizedClass, as follows:  1. Right click on the Logical View and select New --> Class and name it ParamClass 
     2. Right click on the Parameterized class and open the standard specification 
     3. Go to the General tab in the class specification and change the type to be 
     4. ParameterizedClass and click on Apply 
     5. Go to the Detail tab in the class specification and enter a Formal Argument (named for example T) and set Type to "class". 
    
    
 2. Create a Class  1. Right click on the Logical View and select New --> Class and name it InstClass 
     2. Right click on the InstClass and open the standard specification 
     3. Select the General tab in the class specification 
     4. Change "Stereotype" to "typedef" and click on Apply. 
     5. Select the ANSI C++ tab in the class specification, and enter the actual declaration and argument in the "ImplementationType" property, for example: 
    
     * 
     * 
    
    

Now when code is generated for the InstClass, Rose will generate a header file containing the typedef definition. Note that no association exists between the parameterized class and the instantiated class. Thus all changes, to arguments for example, must be manually updated. 





 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 118751458