Title: IBM Performance issues when deleting streams from repository - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When I delete a stream (and all his versions) from out of the Collaboration & Deployment Services repository it takes about 20 minutes and we are getting time out messages. '
It sometimes is even needed to reboot the pc (after 1 hour still no return), after which we find the stream deleted.

I have noticed that when making a copy of an existing stream (with multiple versions) to a newly created folder and then attempted to delete it, this took around 5 seconds, while deleting the same stream previously forced me to reboot the pc as it took longer then 20 minutes. 

How can this be explained? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Disable the 'save column metadata' in the Configuration section of the IBM SPSS Collaboration and Deployment Services Deployment Manager(aka PEA).
(via a webbrowser session using http://servername:protnumber/config/config) Due to the amount of information stored in a stream, stream deletion can take a lot of time.
Deleting such objects generally goes faster when requesting the Properties of the object, and then in the "label" tab, select one or two versions at a time, and then click Delete and OK to start the delete. That limits database contention during the deletion, and is faster then deleting all object versions at once.

The amount of information that is stored when storing a stream can be limited with the "save column metadata" option. By disabling saving of column metadata, the column names of import/export nodes will not be stored.
Objects which were saved before disabling this option will still take more time to delete. New or duplicated objects will be deleted much faster.

Unless you need to do searches or run reports against column metadata, the general recommendation is to disable this option. 

To disable saving the column metadata for import/export nodes follow these steps.
----
1. Login to IBM SPSS Collaboration and Deployment Services Deployment Manager. The URL would be something like this (change host & port). 
http://host:port/security/login 2. In the Configuration section, click the title at the top. It looks similar to this: ":: Configuration "
3. Scroll down to the "Repository" section. There is setting called "Save Column Metadata" that can be unchecked to disable saving the column metadata. "
------

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our C&DS forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/collaboration.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 92873