Title: IBM Changing the user authentication method to LDAP federated repositories - United States

Text:
Silent Installation; LDAP; Administration Center TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 The Installation Guide does not have instructions on how to install the Administration Center when LDAP is configured. 

ENVIRONMENT
LDAP configured server

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Changing the user authentication method to LDAP federated repositories 

You might want to change your user authentication method from local operating system to LDAP (lightweight directory access protocol) federated repositories. 

Remember: Before you change the user authentication method, you must import the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificate. 

To change the user authentication method from local operating system to LDAP federated repositories, complete the following steps: 

1. Start a supported web browser and enter the following information in the address bar: 
http:// hostname.port

where: 
hostname defines the server that is running, such as the server name or IP address. 
port defines the port number for Tivoli® Integrated Portal. If the default port was accepted during the installation of Tivoli Integrated Portal, the port number is 16310. 

2. Log-on to the Tivoli Integrated Portal. Your user ID must have administrator privileges. Make sure that you are viewing all of the available tasks. In the upper, left corner there is a View menu where you can select All tasks. 
3. Click Security > Secure administration, applications, and infrastructure. 
4. Select Federated Repositories from the Available realm definitions list. 
5. Click Configure. 
6. Under Related Items, click Manage repositories. 
7. Add the LDAP repository that you want to use for authentication by clicking Add and entering the following parameters: 

Repository identifier 
A unique identifier for the repository within the cell, for example: LDAP1. 
Directory type 
The type of server that you want to connect to. 
Primary host name 
The host name of the primary LDAP server. This host name is either an IP address or a domain name service (DNS) name. 
Port 
The LDAP server port. The default value is 389, which is not a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) connection. Port 636 can be an SSL connection. For some LDAP servers, you can specify a different port for a non-SSL or SSL connections. If you do not know the port to use, contact your LDAP server administrator. 
Bind distinguish name 
The distinguished name (DN) for the application server to use when binding to the LDAP repository. If no name is specified, the application server binds anonymously. In most cases, bind DN and bind password are needed. However, when anonymous bind can satisfy all of the required functions, bind DN and bind password are unnecessary. 
Bind password 
The password that the application server uses when binding to the LDAP repository. 

8. Click OK. 

9. In the message box, click Save directly to the master configuration. 

10. In the repository identifier column, click the identifier for the repository that you want to use. 

11. On the configuration panel, under Additional Properties, click the LDAP entity types. 

12. In the Entity Type column, click the link for Group, OrgContainer, and PersonAccount. Complete the search bases field. The search bases field specifies the search bases that are used to search this entity type. The search bases specified must be sub-trees of the base entry in the repository. The following example search bases have o=ibm,c=us as the base entry in the repository: 

o=ibm,c=us or cn=users,o=ibm,c=us or ou=austin,o=ibm,c=us 

You can use a semicolon to delimit the search bases. For example: 
ou=austin,o=ibm,c=us;ou=raleigh,o=ibm,c=us 

13. Click OK and then click Save to the master configuration. You must save to the master configuration every time that you update the search bases field. 

14. Return to the federated repositories page and click Supported Entity Types under Additional Properties. 

15. In the Entity type column, click the link for Group, OrgContainer, and PersonAccount and complete the base entry for the default parent and Relative Distinguished Name properties fields. 
a. In the Base entry for the default parent field, enter the same value that you entered in the Search bases field in step 12. 
b. In the Relative Distinguished Name properties field, enter the appropriate LDAP attribute name. In most cases, the values for this field are cn for Group, o;ou;dc;cn for OrgContainer, and uid for PersonAccount. 

16. Click OK and then click Save to the master configuration. You must save to the master configuration every time that you update the base entry for the default parent field. 

17. Return to the federated repositories page and click Apply, then click Save to the master configuration. 

18. Under Repositories in the realm, click Add base entry to Realm. 

19. On the repository reference page, select the repository that you created in step 7 from the repository list. 

20. Enter the distinguished name of a base entry that uniquely identifies the repository in the realm. You must enter the information in the Distinguished name of a base entry uniquely identifying this set of entries in the realm field. In most instances, this value is the same value that you entered in the Search bases field in step 12. 

21. In the Distinguished name of a base entry in this repository field, enter the distinguished name of the base entry within the repository. In most instances, this value is the same value that you entered in the Distinguished name of a base entry that uniquely identifies this set of entries in the realm field. 

22. Click OK and then click Save to the master configuration. You must save to the master configuration every time that you update the distinguished name of a base entry. The base entry identifies the set of entries in the realm field. Two repositories are displayed under repositories in the realm on the federated repositories page; the repository you added, and a default repository. 

23. Change the realm name or leave the value in the Realm name field as it is. 

24. In the primary administrative user name field, enter the name of a user that you added in the repository. The named user is granted administrative privileges for the Tivoli Integrated Portal server. 

25. Click the server identity that is stored in the repository. 

26. In the server user ID or the administrative user node field, enter the ID that you entered in the primary administrative user name field. Enter the password for the user ID. 

27. Select the default file repository that shows File in the Repository type column and remove it. 

28. Click OK and then click Save to the master configuration. 

29. Return to the secure administration, applications, and infrastructure page. 

30. In the available realm definition list, select Federated repositories and click Set as current. 

31. Click Apply and then click Save to the master configuration. 

32. Stop and restart the Tivoli Integrated Portal.

IC74774.pdf [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21474349&aid=2] [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21474349&aid=1]

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 TSM