Title: IBM csv File Import in RDM Distorts non English Characters - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Our data stewards have observed that importing Reference Data Sets using a csv file does not work if the csv file has non English characters in them like an umlaut. If they add the same characters manually by pasting the text in the text field, then it works fine but importing makes them unreadable. In fact, you can paste any language or characters in the Reference Data Management (RDM) UI text boxes and so RDM and database handling seem fine but the validation/filtering/handling of imported file characters seems limited. 
Why are we seeing this and how can we circumvent it? 

CAUSE
RDM allows data stewards to import comma separated values (CSV) files as reference data into a reference data set. The steps for doing so are as follows:
1. Create a reference data set or data set version into which you want to import data.
2. Right-click the reference data set version and select Import from the menu. The Import wizard opens.
3. Choose the file to import as a CSV file and indicate the separator that is used in the file (usually a comma).
4. Click Browse and select the file to import. Click Next.
5. For each property in the reference data set, specify the corresponding column from the file. Choose None if you do not want to import values for a property.
6. On the Preview File tab, review the properties to be imported. Click Back to make any needed corrections to the import mapping.
7. Click Next and then click Finish to begin importing the data.

This imported text may contain foreign characters like é, ä, ö, or ü and it has been observed that after import, these characters get garbled. If you insert them into the RDM text fields manually, they appear fine but importing can sometimes cause distortion as shown below:
[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21689159&amp;aid=1]


ANSWER
The CSV file to be imported into RDM has to be saved with an UTF8 encoding if it contains foreign language characters. If it is encoded differently, then it may cause complications with data distortion and unreadable characters as mentioned earlier. To change the encoding in Notepad, just go to File > Save As > Change Encoding to utf-8. In Notepad++, there is an Encoding menu bar at the top and you can use it to save in a particular format or use it to convert files from one format to another.



PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 RDM
Reference Data Management
Master Data Management
MDM AE
MDM Server