Title: IBM Known issue: IBM StoredIQ for Legal stops sending hold notices - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT DOCUMENTATION

ABSTRACT
 IBM StoredIQ for Legal can sometimes stop sending hold notices, which requires restarting the StoredIQ for Legal server twice. 

CONTENT
If StoredIQ for Legal stops sending hold notices, the following might occur:


 * published hold notices - follow-up and reminder notices are not sent. 
 * new hold notices - when you click Publish to publish the notice, the notice status remains set to Sending and never changes to Published, and the notice is not sent.


Generally, to resume sending hold notices, you must manually restart the StoredIQ for Legal server twice. However, if you already restarted the StoredIQ for Legal server once for some other reason, then you need to restart the StoredIQ for Legal server once more. Here are some reasons why the StoredIQ for Legal server might already have been restarted once: 

 * you just upgraded StoredIQ for Legal and the upgrade process automatically restarted the StoredIQ for Legal server once. 
 * you just configured the StoredIQ for Legal Directory Server settings to load LDAP users and you manually restarted the StoredIQ for Legal server to enable the LDAP users to log in.


To restart the IBM StoredIQ for Legal server, you must restart the VMWare virtual machine (VM) guest operating system (OS). Restart the guest OS using the following steps: 

1. Log in to the VMWare vSphere client. 
2. Select View > Inventory > VMs and Templates. 
3. Select the StoredIQ for Legal virtual machine. 
4. Right click. 
5. Select Power. 
6. Select Restart Guest. 
Result: An entry is displayed in the Recent Tasks section at the bottom of the vSphere client window. The entry includes "Initiate guest OS reboot" under the Name column. 
7. Right click. 
8. Select Open Console. 
Result: A console window is displayed that shows the guest OS is rebooting. When the reboot completes, a login prompt is displayed in the console window. 

Alternatively, you can use the following steps: 

1. Log in to the VMWare vSphere client. 
2. Select View > Inventory > VMs and Templates. 
3. Select the StoredIQ for Legal virtual machine. 
4. Select Inventory > Virtual Machine > Power > Restart Guest. 
Result: An entry is displayed in the Recent Tasks section at the bottom of the vSphere client window. The entry includes "Initiate guest OS reboot" under the Name column. 
5. Right click. 
6. Select Open Console. 
Result: A console window is displayed that shows the guest OS is rebooting. When the reboot completes, a login prompt is displayed in the console window. 

Also, you can restart the server by typing a command in a VMWare vSphere console or SSH session as follows: 

1. Log in to the VMWare vSphere client. 
2. Select View > Inventory > VMs and Templates. 
3. Select the StoredIQ for Legal virtual machine. 
4. Right click. 
5. Select Open Console. 
A console window is displayed that contains a login prompt. 
6. Log in as user "root". 
7. Type "reboot" and push the Enter key. 
Result: After the server has restarted successfully, the login prompt is displayed in the console window. 

Note: After the guest OS restarts successfully, you must wait a short time - 5 minutes or less - before the StoredIQ for Legal system is ready for use. However, the amount of time may vary depending on your deployment. 


ORIGINAL PUBLICATION DATE
 2015/8/7