Title: IBM Why is Total Requests always 1? - United States

Text:
Robotic Response Time; Total Requests; AMC Editor; Data Analysis Configuration; Script Interval; 71RRT-DCOLL; 71RRT-RPTG; 71GEN-TEPWV; 71GEN-DCOLL TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 In the TEP console, when you select the Robotic Response Time > Applications workspace, typically Total Requests is 1. Consequently, Good Requests and Failed Requests are either 1 or 0. How can you configure greater granularity in these fields? 

ANSWER

The following is a sample workspace that you view when you select the Robotic Response Time > Applications workspace from the Navigator tree in the Tivoli Enterprise Portal (TEP) console. Notice that Total Requests is 1 for the transaction in the last row. If the script runs correctly, Good Requests is 1 and Failed Requests is 0. If the script fails, Good Requests is 0 and Failed Requests is 1. The resulting percentages are either 0 or 100 percent.

[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21390663&aid=1] [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21390663&aid=1]

How can you configure greater granularity in these metrics?

In ITCAM for Transactions 7.x, the value you observe in the Total Requests column depends on the monitoring interval and how frequently the script runs. By default, in ITCAM for Transactions 7.x, the monitoring interval is 5 minutes. However, you can change this interval in the agent configuration.

When you observe that Total Requests is 1, this means that the script ran once in the last monitoring interval. If the script runs more frequently than the monitoring interval, Total Requests may be more than 1. For example, if the profile runs a script once a minute, and the monitoring interval is 5 minutes, Total Requests can be as high as 5.

For Robotic scripts, the Script Interval parameter defines how frequently the script runs. This parameter is defined in a profile in the Application Management Configuration Editor in the TEP console. 

For example, the following profile is for a Rational Performance Test script that browses pages in the PlantsByWebSphere application. In this example, the Script Interval is 5 minutes.

[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21390663&aid=2] [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21390663&aid=2]

Note that the default monitoring interval of 5 minutes optimizes the aggregation function at the agent level in large-scale environments. When you are processing a large volume of transactions, a shorter aggregation period is more efficient than a longer aggregation period. Longer aggregation periods can cause a computational bottleneck.

You can change the default monitoring interval by setting the configuration option 'Number of minutes to aggregate data before writing out a data point'. You can access this variable on the Data Analysis Configuration tab when you reconfigure the Robotic Response Time (RRT) agent through the Manage Services GUI. Right-click the RRT agent entry in the Manage Services GUI. Then, select the Reconfigure command. Navigate to the Data Analysis Configuration tab. Change the monitoring interval, save the configuration changes, and restart the T6 agent.

Under Linux or Unix, you can manually configure the RRT agent from the command line.

1. Open a terminal prompt.
2. Change the current directory to ITM_HOME/bin.
3. Enter the following command:


 * 


4. Take the default when you are prompted to edit the 'Data Analysis Configuration' settings: 
 * 


5. Enter the monitoring interval: 
 * 


6. Save the configuration changes and restart the T6 agent.