Title: IBM How to Install Python and PLS for Statistics 21. Unable to run PLS getting error warning #6894 - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I have installed IBM SPSS Statistics 21 and SPSS Statistics PythonEssentials 21 but I can't seem to run my PLS command. When I tried to run the below command, I am getting the error warning listed below.

BEGIN PROGRAM.
import spss
print "hello world"
END PROGRAM.
Warning # 6894. Command name: BEGIN PROGRAM
The external program exit unexpectedly and lost its content, a new
external program will startup to execute the rest of job.


ANSWER
You are more likely to be getting the error when you don't have all the Python components installed.
Below are the items you will need to install to for PLS to work.

1. Install Python version 2.7. Python 2.7 can be downloaded from www.python.org. For Statistics 21, IBM SPSS Statistics Essentials for Python should automatically install Python 2.7 and PLS. 
IBM SPSS Statistics Essentials for Python are available from the Passport Advantage download site. It is no longer available at DeveloperWorks Forum. 

2. Install Numpy and Scipy latest version that match your Python. This should be available for download through www.scipy.org. Be sure to choose the correct bit format for your OS.

When running the BEGIN PROGRAM to test your Python or PLS, be sure there is NO space or indentation in front of IMPORT or PRINT command. Otherwise, it will produce a string location error.
After you have all the components listed above installed along with your Statistics version, just run the command in Statistics syntax again. You can also run this PLS command through Analyze/Regression/PLS.

begin program.
import PLS
print "have a nice day"
end program.

Note: This behavior can also present if there are insufficient hardware resources (RAM) to run Python and the requested procedure. In such cases, the 'hello world' procedure will present normally but when the actual procedure is executed, 'Warning # 6894' will present.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]