Title: IBM WebSEAL HTTP client and WPM client support statement - United States

Text:
iphone blackberry mobile google android browsers browser TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What browsers are supported with IBM Security Access Manager? 

ANSWER

Client Support Statement:



[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21516843&amp;aid=1]WebSEAL
[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21516843&amp;aid=2]Web Portal Manager WebSEAL HTTP Client Support Statement 

End user operations 
This refers to clients used for non-administrative connections, such as authenticating to WebSEAL and connecting to applications protected by WebSEAL. In lieu of providing a list of specific clients supported by WebSEAL, which may limit the breadth of clients WebSEAL can support, we state that WebSEAL generally supports clients that conform to the HTTP 1.1 standard as defined by RFC 2616. This is not a comprehensive statement. of support because WebSEAL relies on a number of client characteristics that are either not defined or loosely defined by RFC 2616. Examples of such characteristics include, but are not limited to: Cookie management, SSL support, and concurrency of multiple connections. Widely used browsers such as Firefox, Chrome, Safari and Internet Explorer support such characteristics during typical usage. The extension of browser capabilities that modify these characteristics can, however, introduce compatibility problems with WebSEAL. The same is true of other client types, such as mobile applications or rich clients. Compatibility complications that cannot be resolved through modification of the environment or configuration of the WebSEAL product are not supported. 


Web Portal Manager Client Support Statement 

Administrative operations 
This refers to clients for use with the Web Portal Manager graphical user interface. To find the list of supported browsers please refer to the release notes documentation for the version of Tivoli Access Manager for e-business in use. (Release Notes > Installation, configuration, upgrade, and migration information > Software requirements > Tivoli Access Manager supported Web browsers) 
 Back to top 

 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 ITAM TAM PD