Title: IBM Why am I receiving buffer error messages in the IODM CICS region? - United States

Text:
workstation related TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Why am I receiving the error message EKC0502a in the ImagePlus® Object Distribution Manager (IODM) CICS® region? I received several hundred messages before I realized there was a problem and rebooted the workstation, which was running InputAccel FAF (Folder Application Facility) export. The reboot solved the problem. 

The message says: EKC0502A "Unable to get or free buffer....OBJSIZE from workstation possibly greater than the OBJMAX parm in the IDPARMTB." 

What does this message mean, and how do I prevent it from happening? 

ANSWER
This problem occurs when the buffer size, received from the workstation after an INITC/INITR (initialization complete / reinitialization), is either too big or too small. The buffer can be no larger than the maximum buffer size defined in the parameter table, IDPARMTB. 

This problem is not normally an IODM problem. The solution is to re-initialize the workstation. To re-initialize the workstation, end IWPM or the other third party code being used at the workstation, and restart it. Then, perform the OINT transaction to initialize the workstation. You can also reboot the workstation if necessary. Normally, the workstation produces an error for the store failure, but here, InputAccel does not produce an error. 

An error can happen at any time after the INITC/INITR occurs at the workstation. Other users have noticed that sometimes, at the workstation, the preset buffer size changes to a larger value. We do not know if this is an overlay problem or if other software resets it. The error is designed to prevent you from writing objects to an OAM that is missing data or is incorrect. It also indicates that the document or object must be rescanned and a new store attempted. 

This error can occur even if you are not running InputAccel. Sometimes the size of the maximum buffer that is being supported at the workstation gets corrupted and the wrong buffer size is sent to the host. Code changes have been made at the host to detect the possibility of corruption, and to reject additional input from that workstation until it is rebooted.