Title: IBM RRT scripts incorrectly triggering TIMEOUT events - United States

Text:
RPT; timeout; runtime; 71RRT-RPTPLAN; 71RRT-RPTCONF; 71RRT-RPTPLAY; 71RRT-RPTRPTG; 71RRT-RPTTS TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What can you do to prevent RPT (Rational Performance Tester) scripts from incorrectly raising timeout failures? 

CAUSE
Scripts are running under multiple RPT runtime packages.

ANSWER
Typically, RPT scripts do not timeout unless you set the timeout interval too low in the profile, or an actual hard error on the monitored website prevents the script from completing normally. In the profile, set retries to zero and set the timeout value, in seconds, to be equal to the playback interval. So, if the playback interval is 5 minutes, you set the timeout value to 300 seconds.

Other factors may be contributing to this issue.

Each time you upgraded your RPT workbench, if you did not recompile all of your scripts at the same RPT maintenance level, over time you end up with a number of RPT runtime packages on the T6 playback host. Each of these runtime packages runs as a separate JVM. In this case, the separate JVM's compete with each other for CPU resources. The remedy is to recompile your RPT scripts and export them to the AMC (Application Management Console.) Then, the scripts run under the same runtime package.

In the T6 configuration, there are entries that can affect timeouts. You set these entries when you reconfigure the T6 agent. You can view these settings in the ITM_HOME/config/<hostname>_t6.cfg file, and in the Robotic Response Time > Configuration > Agent Details panel in the TEP console.

_ Concurrent CLI Playback. Normally, you want to take the default, which is TRUE. You want the runtime package to control playback concurrency. If you set this entry to FALSE, scripts run end to end, instead of concurrently.

_ Maximum number of concurrent robotic playbacks = 10. Normally, you keep the default value. This value gives you the best concurrent playback response time.

There are other contributing factors:

_ If the playback interval is too short, the scripts may not have enough time to complete during the playback cycle, and they timeout. You may need to increase the playback interval.

_ If too many scripts are trying to playback concurrently on the same host, you may need to balance the workload by moving some of the scripts to another playback host.

_ You may be able to playback the current mix of scripts on the same host if you eliminate the delay factor in your RPT scripts. The delay factor is different than "think time." The ITCAM plugin removes the think time when you export scripts to the AMC.

RELATED INFORMATION
 How to improve RRT-HTTP script playback speed [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21632208]




HISTORICAL NUMBER
 13119.082.000 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 ITCAMfT
T7.4