Title: IBM Scheduled Rational Requirement Composer ETL job fails to run - United States

Text:
CRRRE1404E; etl job; com.ibm.rational.dataservices.client.auth.AuthenticationException: CRRRE1404E: The user or password is invalid. Please provide a valid user name and the correct password.; com; ibm; rational; dataservices; client; auth; AuthenticationException: CRRRE1404E: The user or password is invalid; Please provide a valid user name and the correct password TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Scheduled Rational Requirement Composer (RRC) ETL job fails to run and reports "CRRRE1404E" error in the logs. 

SYMPTOM
Scheduled Rational Requirement Composer ETL job fails to run and the following is visible in the jts-etl.log and jts-etl-driver.log logs. 

jts-etl.log


ERROR ouse.service.rrc.internal.RemoteRRCSnapshotService - java.sql.SQLException: com.ibm.rational.etl.common.exception.ETLException: javax.net.ssl.SSLException: SSL peer shut down incorrectly


jts-etl-driver.log


ERROR tional.drivers.jdbc.xml.internal.PageFetcherThread - com.ibm.rational.etl.common.exception.ETLException: com.ibm.rational.etl.common.exception.ETLException: com.ibm.rational.dataservices.client.auth.AuthenticationException: CRRRE1404E: The user or password is invalid. Please provide a valid user name and the correct password.



CAUSE
A possible cause for this problem is the ETL user password has expired. 



DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Try to run the job manually from the jts admin page. If that succeeds, there is a great possibility that the ETL user has an issue, probably the password has expired. When running the job manually, it will be run as the logged in user and not the ETL user.



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Reset the password for the ETL user. If a new password is being used, that password also has to be set in the jts admin page for the ETL user. 

 

 

Leverage the Jazz Community The Jazz based products have an active community that can provide you with additional resources. Browse and contribute to the User forums, contribute to the Team Blog and review the Team wiki.
Refer to technote 1319600 [http://ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21319600] for details and links.