Title: IBM Using a report object variable to apply note numbering in Cognos Disclosure Management - United States

Text:
Cognos Disclosure Management; CDM; cognos disclosure management; cdm; customizing report object properties; Microsoft Excel objects; Microsoft Word objects; configuring note numbering FIX README

ABSTRACT
 In IBM® Cognos® Disclosure Management. you can customize report object properties to specify the appearance of note numbers. You use report object variables to add numbered notes to a report to provide details about an item. 

CONTENT
You can manually enter note numbering variables or configure note numbering to update automatically.
Restrictions:
Users with the appropriate permissions can do this task.

About this task:
You can either configure variables to automatically update note numbering or assign a manual number 
to each note. Manual note numbers must be kept up to date if changes occur but they allow you to 
use a customized note numbering method as opposed to basic incremental numbering when you choose automatic note numbering. 
For example, if you want to use a manual combination of letters and numbers to change the way the note renders (F.1, F.2, F.3)

Procedure:
1. Open the report that you want to work with.
2. In the report, determine the location of where you want to add note numbering.
3. In the Report pane, open and check out the Microsoft Excel or Word object where you want to apply note numbering.
4. Click the Section View Mode icon on the status bar of the application window.
5. In the report object properties, choose either automatic or manual note numbering.
Note: Note numbering by default is not enabled. This is shown by the value N/A in the Note Type 
field. 
6. For automatic numbering select Automatic from the Note Type drop-down menu and enter a unique 
variable to be used, for example ##CshNote, in the Note Variable field. For manual note numbering, 
select Manual from the Note Type drop-down menu, enter a unique variable in the Note Variable field, 
and enter a number in the Note Number field. 
7. Save your changes.
8. In the work area for the Excel or Word object, type the variable name using the correct syntax. 
You must type the variable where you want the note number to appear in the report. 
For example, ##CshNote. Cash 
where:
- ##CshNote is the uniquely named note numbering variable.
- The period ( . ) is a period that occurs after the number and Cash is the title of the note number 
to be displayed.
9. Save your changes in the Excel or Word object.
10. Click the Default View Mode icon on the status bar of the application window.
11. Save your changes to the report and check in the Excel or Word object.