Title: IBM Java applet start-up delay - United States

Text:
Java applet delays; Java Viewer delays; Daeja Viewer performance; Java start-up delays; Java applet performance TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Delays experienced during the launch of signed Java applets including the Daeja viewer with Java runtime v7u25 and above including runtime v8.x 

SYMPTOM
Long delays may be experienced during the launch of Java applets like those used in IBM Content Navigator, and Case Manager when using Java runtime v7u25 and above. The applet appears to hang during initialization or is slow to launch.


CAUSE
This happens when the Java runtime attempts to check if the Signed Certificate has been revoked. Java v7 introduced certificate revocation checks, but these were not enabled by default until update 25 and above. The revocation services are internet based and must be accessible by the user desktop when certificate revocation checking is enabled.

ENVIRONMENT
When using Java runtime v7u25 and above with the default settings, certificate revocation checks are made using OCSP and CRL methods. These checks require internet access to the revocation services. If internet access from the users desktop is not allowed or is restricted these revocation checks may fail. The delay time experienced depends on how quickly the revocation check either succeeds or fails.

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
The revocation checks can be seen in a network trace. Look for DNS requests and connections to ocsp.verisign.com, crl.verisign.com. To test whether revocation is the cause of your delays, disable the revocation checks using the Java runtime control panel - Advanced tab

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The browser environment must be able to resolve the revocation service addresses and must be able to make a successful connection to the remote services if the checks are enabled. If internet access to these services cannot be provided, then the revocation checks can be disabled on the Java runtime control panel 'Advanced' tab. If these checks go via a proxy server, ensure that the requests are handled correctly.



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Enterprise Content Management Case Manager Case Manager Client Windows Enterprise Content Management Daeja ViewONE Windows 4.1 Enterprise Content Management FileNet Application Engine Windows