Title: IBM How the Quick List feature for custom properties works internally in IBM FileNet Content Services - United States

Text:
Quick; List; quicklist; T-Tables TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How the Quick List feature for custom properties works internally in Filenet Content Services 

ANSWER
The Quick List feature is available on any custom property created in Content Services via CS Explorer. 

Normally, Content Services clients will query the ELEMENT table, the primary table for item objects, to retrieve a list of distinct values for any single value custom property. 

If the Quick List feature is set to Yes, a library T-Table (for example, T298) is used to hold all distinct values of the user entries when the custom property is used during the Add Document wizard in IBM FileNet IDM Desktop, IBM FileNet IDM Web Services, or IDM FileNet Open Client. There are a default number of T-Tables installed by Content Services for use by this feature. Once all these are used, new T-Tables are created to accommodate new Quick Lists. These tables are created to increase performance of providing the available list to end users via the client software.

Use of a CVL with such a custom property is possible as well. This CVL assignment is made in the Document Class utility in CS Explorer for the Document Class that is using the custom property with the Quick List feature enabled. An assigned CVL will offer an alternate, predefined list for users to choose from as opposed to choosing from a free-form list entered by users provided by the T-Table when the Quick List is enabled. Since CVLs are specific to Document Classes, both features can work together.

Developers may want to make use of these lists and therefore access the tables using SQL Select statements. They need to understand that if the Quick List feature is turned off for a given custom property, the tables will no longer hold these values. Permission settings on the table or Content Services database may also need to be changed to allow another account to read the table. Note that the database login which matches the library name, also referred to as the catalog user, must never have its password changed manually; it is generated using an algorithm by the Content Services software.



HISTORICAL NUMBER
 20005364 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 CONTENT SERVICES