Title: IBM Federal Desktop Core Configuration and Rational Performance Tester - United States

Text:
SRX; RN7.0.1.1; FDCC; FIPS; 1294141 NEWS

ABSTRACT
 The Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC) settings on Microsoft速 Windows速 Vista and Microsoft Windows XP affect several aspects of installing and using IBM速 Rational速 Performance Tester (RPT). This technote details how to work around the limitations imposed by the FDCC settings. 

CONTENT
Installation 

Do not install RPT to the C:\Program Files directory. This directory is protected under the FDCC settings, and cannot be accessed by users without Administrator privileges. As of RPT 7.0.0.2, the default RPT installation directory on Windows Vista is no longer C:\Program Files. On Windows XP you must change the default installation directory.

Recording
FDCC restricts access to the Windows Registry Editor. RPT uses the Registry Editor to automatically configure Internet Explorer to use a SOCKS proxy so that HTTP traffic can be recorded. Thus, you will see errors if you attempt to record an HTTP test with the default FDCC settings. To work around this behavior, install Firefox and configure RPT to use it for recording. To configure RPT to use Firefox:


 1. Click Window > Preferences. 
 2. Expand the Test category, and then select HTTP Recording. 
 3. Select Firefox in the Application to record list. 
 4. Click OK. 


Alternately, you can configure RPT not to launch a browser automatically: 
 1. Click Window > Preferences. 
 2. Expand the Test category, and then select HTTP Recording. 
 3. Select None in the Application to record list. 
 4. Click OK.


Note: if you configure RPT not to launch a browser, you must configure Internet Explorer to use a proxy. After you start recording a test, launch Internet Explorer and configure it to point to a SOCKS proxy at localhost on port 1080 ( Tools > Internet Options > Connections > LAN Settings > Proxy Server > Advanced). 

Internet Explorer 7 has some restrictions related to SSL. FDCC requires Internet Explorer 7 to use FIPS 140 [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIPS-140] algorithms when accessing Web sites over SSL. If a Web site has not been configured to support FIPS algorithms, Internet Explorer 7 displays an error message indicating that the site cannot be reached. To record tests with Internet Explorer 7 over SSL, you must ensure that the Web site under test is configured to support FIPS algorithms. 

Response Time Breakdown 
The Data Collection Infrastructure (DCI) is required for the response time breakdown feature in RPT. To start and stop the DCI you must have Administrator privileges. 

SAP 
The SAP GUI client software must be installed to a directory other than C:\Program Files and must be run by a user with Administrator privileges. 

Administrator privileges are required to successfully record and run SAP tests and schedules. 

When recording SAP tests, do not click the SAP Logon radio button when specifying the SAP connection. Instead, click the Server information radio button. 

To run SAP tests, you might need to update a field in the test: 
 1. Open the test. 
 2. Select the SAP Connection object. 
 3. Click Advanced. 
 4. If the Edit New Visual Theme field is empty then select "Enjoy" as the value.




RELATED INFORMATION
#FDCC website [http://fdcc.nist.gov/]




PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 RPT