Title: IBM Converting A Document With More Than 1296  Pages in IBM Datacap Taskmaster Capture - United States

Text:
Custom script; pdf; pdf limitations TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When converting from a large PDF that contains more than 1296 pages, the batch log receives an exception. 

SYMPTOM
Logs for the task that ran the PDF convert action receive the following error: "Setting the Batch to Abort. Action returns false. Exception found while extracting images: Number of digits is '2' (Conversion) result '100' exceeds allowed amount of digits.
Parameter name: number"


CAUSE
As documented in the IBM Datacap Taskmaster documentation it states, "Limits: 1296 input files in batch; 1296 output images per input file, each input file can contain up to 3 embedded levels or 4 levels total (e.g. Input zip file contains another zip file which contains a multi-page pdf file; or Input msg file has attached msg file which contains a zip file which contains 100 single page TIF files)".

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM



 1.  Integrate the Linux command pdftk into Windows. This can be found through a browser search of the tool. An example of the command is as follows: pdftk pages.pdf burst. 
 2.  Create a custom script to run the above command. 
 3.  Place the custom script in a Datacap compliant RRX file. 
 4.  Place your custom script into C:\Datacap\RSS folder. 
 5.  Your custom action from step 4 is now viewable in Datacap Studio Actions Library. 
 6.  In Datacap Studio, select the Ruleset and Function that contains your Tiff conversion action. 
 7.  Select the custom action in the Actions Library. 
 8.  Select Add to Function button. 
 9.  Move the custom action above the Tiff conversion action using the green arrow keys. 
 10. Rerun the batch and the issue is resolved

This solution is for Datacap Taskmaster Capture versions 8.1 and earlier. For versions 9.0 and newer, see Batch aborts converting over 1295 pages in a PDF with IBM Datacap [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg22009898].