Title: IBM Creating a list report which spans across the left and then right side of the page. - United States

Text:
Continuation of Data on one page Result set list reports columns table running count TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In some cases when creating a list report in Report Studio
you may wish to span the report first down the left side of the page, and then instead of contiuing to the next page, have it continue on a list report within the right side. This can be a good idea if the result set is rather small and instead of having the report span two pages, you can just format it to fit on one. 

One way to accomplish this would be to use the running count
summary function and a dimension level filter to determione how many rows go into each list. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 Steps:1) Launch IBM Cognos ReportNet and then load your package into Report Studio.

2) From the Report Studio Toolbox, create a table with 2 columns and 1 row.

3) Drag a list report into each column of the table.

4) Add your query items (columns) to the report.

5) Drag a calculated column from the toolbox, and append one to each list report, giving it a unique name. Within the calculated column editor, click the function tab and expand the summary folder. Double click the running count function. Running count will apply a numeric value to each row being returned to the report. Think of this as adding row numbers. This can be hidded from uses so that is it only used to control the logic of the report. You will need to add syntax to this column. Basically place a column into this function so that it knows what to count.

Sample: running-count([Column])

6) Apply a filter so that you can determine how many rows go in each list report. Do this by clicking on each Query within Report Studios Query Explorer and dragging a filter out into the Query Filter box. In the filter editor, simply double click the calculated column so that it shows up in the editor and add an operator followed by a number so it knows how to denominate the result set. For example, my report always returns the top 20 most lucrative sales made each month. I want a report which lists the compnay name and invoice # for each. I want the first 10 to go on the the left side of the screen, and 11-20 on the right side.

I would need to create this filter as follows:

Left List report:

[Calculated Column]< 11

Right List report:

[Calculated Column] > 10 and [Calculated Column] <=20

The above filters will put the first 10 records into list box on the left and the 11-20 records into the right.




Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos ReportNet ReportNet 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1015963