Title: IBM java.lang.ClassNotFoundException:  DSRA8000E: - United States

Text:
DSRA8000E; java.lang.ClassNotFoundException; DSRA8000E: No jar or zip files found in {0} ; No jar or zip files found TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 While trying to use the test datasource connection button, you receive a java.lang.ClassNotFoundException 

SYMPTOM
DSRA8000E: No jar or zip files found in {0} 

Explanation: Unable to locate JAR or ZIP files in the JDBC provider library path specified. 


CAUSE
This is due to multiple JDBC providers that load the same classes; the typical scenario is that there are two JDBC providers for the same database provider (such as two Oracle JDBC providers or two DB2 providers). The same classes and in some cases even the same classes jar or zip file are used. The order in which the JDBC providers are started cannot be specified. Therefore, there is no way to determine which database provider will be started first. 
For example, if two different database providers are configured for two different versions of the same driver, for example, DB2 8.1 and DB2 9 database providers, then the driver that is loaded first is the one whose classes are loaded. Therefore, the "wrong" driver may be invoked, which in turn does not match the native libraries in use resulting in this exception.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
For WebSphere AppServer 7.0 and following, it is now possible to have each JDBC provider use its own classloader. See information on the Isolate this resource provider setting in Knowledge Center article JDBC Provider Settings [https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSAW57_8.5.5/com.ibm.websphere.nd.doc/ae/udat_manjdbcprodet.html]. 

 For previous versions, then 

1. Verify that the path specified is correct and the necessary driver jars are present in that path. 

2. Avoid using more than one JDBC provider for a database product.




Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Application Servers Runtimes for Java Technology Java SDK