Title: IBM LDAP attributes, other than the user name and display name, are not accessible in IBM Business Process Manager (BPM) - United States

Text:
LDAP BPM attribute username display name VMM TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How can you access user attributes other than user name and display name in an LDAP store from the IBM Business Process Manager products? 

CAUSE
Note: The information that is contained in this document has been moved to dW Answers at this location [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/questions/171922/how-can-you-access-user-attributes-other-than-user.html]. The new format will allow you to ask questions of the community to better understand the information. This technote will be archived in 60 days. Please bookmark the new location.

Even though IBM Business Process Manager security is based on WebSphere Application Server security and any user attribute that you mark as supported for a security provider (LDAP or otherwise) is technically available through the Virtual Member Manager API, a Business Process Manager user does not know anything about these attributes. The only attributes that are available for a Business Process Manager user, that actually come from the underlying security provider, are the user name and display name. 


ANSWER
To resolve this issue, you can use one of the following approaches: 

 * Use the LDAP Connector toolkit to query LDAP for specific user attributes. Then, store these values in custom Business Process Manager user attributes so that task user assignment can be selected based on these Business Process Manager user attributes.
   
   
 * Use code that queries the Virtual Member Manager to retrieve any supported user attributes from the underlying security repository and stash the value in a Business Process Manager user custom attribute.



You must implement either solution as custom code.

 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Integration IBM BPM Advanced Pattern on Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server Security Linux Red Hat - xSeries 8.0 Business Integration IBM Business Process Manager Standard Security AIX, Linux, Linux zSeries, Solaris, Windows 8.5.5, 8.5, 8.0, 7.5.1.1, 7.5.1, 7.5.0.1, 7.5 Business Integration IBM Business Process Manager Express Security Linux, Linux zSeries, Windows 8.5.5, 8.5, 8.0, 7.5.1.1, 7.5.1, 7.5.0.1, 7.5 
PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 BPM