Title: IBM Creating a union for multiple query subjects in Framework Manager - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Data being captured is stored in multiple schemas by year. We have a request to create a model which will report across the multiple years out of report studio as well as an adhoc type request 
out of query studio. The multiple schemas have identical table structures. What options do we have in 
framework to achieve this result set or do we have to leverage some sort of a view at the data layer unioning these queries prior to modeling? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The optimal approach for something like this is it implement it on the database side; ideally by using an ETL process to consolidate it to a single table with appropriate indexes (and for best results, materialized views or whatever the equivalent is on the target database). 
Assuming that isn't feasible, a database View should allow us to create a "union all" on all the tables (i.e. select * from year1.table 
union all 
select * from year2.table 
union all
...
etc).

Cognos can consume the view as a single query subject, allowing us to push the aggregations to the database. 
. 
If we need to avoid modifying the database entirely, we can create a query subject for each year of data, and then create a query set out of them. This is a bit of work, because in FM we can only union 
two query subjects at a time, so if (for example) you had four years, you'd have to create a query set to union Year1 with Year2, and another one to union Year3 with Year4. Finally, we'd need a third set to union the first union with the second union. This modeling approach forces Cognos to do a lot of additional processing, which is liable to impact report performance. 

 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos Business Intelligence Framework Manager AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, Windows 10.2, 10.2.1, 10.2.1.1, 10.2.2 Edition Independent