Title: IBM CWLLG2229E and CWLLG0826E messages received in the SystemOut.log file for an application cluster member in IBM Business Process Manager (BPM) Advanced - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In IBM Business Process Manager (BPM) Advanced, you may receive unexpected messages in the SystemOut.log file for an application cluster member when claiming a task that works with the IBM BPM content store. 

SYMPTOM
If you are running an IBM BPM clustered environment with more than one application cluster member, and working with business processes that use the IBM BPM content store, you may receive the following error messages when selecting one of the business process instances when claiming a task: 

 * CWLLG2229E: An exception occurred in an EJB call. 
 * CWLLG0826E: Operation failed for artifact "TestCT" because the IBM BPM content store is not available in this environment.


Clicking OK in the message window returns you to the My Work view. The task is gone, but the process instance it belongs to is in "Failed" state in the background.


CAUSE
When working with the IBM BPM content store in a clustered environment, all members of the clustered environment must have the case license installed. 


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Contact your system administrator, or if you have system administrator rights, follow these steps in each of the sections below to resolve the problem: 


Locate the failed instance 

 1. As the system administrator, log in to the Process Inspector. 
 2. Select the Process Application that the user is working with. 
 3. Check to see if any instances are in status "Failed". An instance that failed due to a missing case license with be displayed with Error:{0}. If such an instance exists, you need to repair this instance.


Repair the failed instance  1. Identify the application cluster member that does not have the case license installed. You can do this by checking the SystemOut.logs of the application cluster members. Only the member without the case license will have error messages CWLLG2229E and CWLLG0826E. 
 2. Log in to Process Inspector on an application cluster member that has a valid case license. 
 3. Select the failed instance and click Retry failed steps. The instance returns to state "Active".


Installing the case license 
Note: Before the user can continue to work on the instance, the administrator needs to install and activate the case license on the failing application cluster member installation. 
 1. Stop all IBM BPM processes on the machine that does not have the case license. 
 2. Start the Installation Manager on the machine that does not have the case license and select Modify to modify a package group. 
 3. On the Modify Packages dialog, select the IBM WebSphere Application Server network Deployment V8.5 package group and click Next. 
 4. On the Features dialog, select and expand the entry IBM Business Process Manager Advanced - Process Server 8.5.6. 
 5. Select the Basic Case Management License entry and click Next. 
 6. On the Summary Panel, click Modify to install the license. 
 7. When the license is successfully installed, exit the Installation Manager. 
 8. Restart all IBM BPM members that reside on this machine. Verify that no errors occur during startup by checking the SystemOut.logs of each member (node agents, cluster members).

 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 BPM