Title: IBM CDM 10.2.1: Issues When Adding Footnotes and Resizing Details Pane Controls - United States

Text:
CDM 10.2.1; CDM TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This TechNote describes and provides resolution instructions in regards to a CDM XBRL Client Application issue where users may experience several visual errors after adding a footnote and, subsequently, attempting to resize the controls that are presented in the details pane section of the application. 

SYMPTOM
The following are some of the symptoms of this problem: 

 * The Office Document Viewer control is disconnected/dislodged from the application and will not minimise or resize along with the rest of the application. 
 * Trying to change the width or height of the details pane, in the CDM XBRL Client Application, actually causes the opposite effect in the disconnected Office Viewer Control. 
 * Continuing to use the application in a state where a control is disconnected can lead to a crash.


CAUSE
This TechNote describes and provides resolution instructions in regards to a CDM XBRL Client Application issue where users may experience several visual errors after adding a footnote and, subsequently, attempting to resize the controls that are presented in the details pane section of the application. One of these errors includes the apparent dislocation/disconnection of the Microsoft Office Viewer control (used to display office documents) from the rest of the application which can lead to an application crash. 

Another scenario where this problem has been reported to occur is also when a laptop, which has the CDM XBRL Client Application running in maximized window mode, is docked to a docking station where several refresh errors occur leaving the application in an unusable state.

Please note that this error has been reported on systems which have the base distribution of Microsoft .NET Framework 4.0 installed on the system which also has CDM XBRL Client Application.


ENVIRONMENT
CDM XBRL Client Application (CDM 10.2.1)



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
These problems can be resolved through the installation of specific Microsoft .NET Framework 4.0 updates. 


Tests conclude that installing one of the following specific updates will resolve these issues. 

 * Install Microsoft .NET Framework 4 Platform Update 1 (or Update 4.0.1 for .NET Framework 4). 
 * Install/Upgrade the version of Microsoft .NET Framework to 4.5. 


Please note that tests have indicated that installing either update will fix the problems permanently on the system on which these issues occur. Basically, uninstalling either update will not cause the issues to reappear. 

Update 4.0.1 for Microsoft .NET Framework 4 – Runtime Update [http://support.microsoft.com/kb/2478063] 
Update 4.0.1 for Microsoft .NET Framework 4 Features [http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/vstudio/hh290669%28v=vs.100%29.aspx] 

Please note that the installation of later versions of the Platform Updates (4.0.2 and 4.0.3) for Microsoft .NET Framework 4 will also resolve this issue since these updates are cumulative in nature.