Title: IBM Unable to create bundles for an assessment that is opened - United States

Text:
bundle; bundles; assessment; ozasmt; visual studio solution; Why can't I create bundles for an assessment that I've opened? TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In IBM Rational AppScan Source, after having opened a saved assessment (ozasmt) file that was generated from a Microsoft Visual Studio application scan, I cannot create or modify bundles both if I do or do not have the application source code on my workstation. 

CAUSE
All bundle data is stored in AppScan Source application files. These files may have either a .paf or .gaf file extension. Paf files are generated when creating a new manual application in the working directory that has been specified by the user. Gaf files are automatically generated when a Visual Studio solution file has been imported into AppScan Source for Security and are located in the same directory as the solution file.
In order for gaf files to be generated, however, you must have the same version of Visual Studio installed on the workstation that corresponds to the version of the solution file that you would like to import. If you do not have Visual Studio installed, the gaf file is not generated and thus all bundle data cannot be written to that location and will be disabled.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
If a user would like to create or modify bundles for an assessment file that was generated by means of a Visual Studio application scan but does not have Visual Studio installed, these steps can be followed if the user does have the application source code available. 

 

 1.  Within AppScan Source for Security, select File > Add Application > New Application 
 2.  For the “Name” field, enter the name of the Visual Studio solution (sln) file without the .sln file extension. The name of the application within AppScan Source for Security should be the same as the name of the solution file. 
 3.  For the “Working Directory” field, choose the directory that contains the existing Visual Studio solution file. 
 4.  Select “Finish” 
 5.  Select File > Open Assessment and choose a saved assessment (ozasmt) file that corresponds to the Visual Studio solution that the user is working with. 
 6.  If the assessment file contains variables that have not yet been defined, a dialog message will be displayed that says “Undefined Variables – The assessment contains variables that are not defined”. 
 7.  Press the OK button to configure the variable(s) and bring up the “Define Variables” menu. 
 8.  The variable specified within the assessment (ozasmt) file will be automatically added to the menu but the user will have to specify a value. Simply select the variable, and then select the blue pencil icon at the top right of the “Define Variables” menu. 
 9.  Choose the directory that contains both the Visual Studio solution file as well as the AppScan Source application file (.paf). 
 10. If the user has already added the variable prior to opening the assessment by selecting Edit > Define Variables, but is still having issues, then a new value might have to be specified for the variable or the variable name may be incorrect. Please note that variable names are CASE SENSITIVE.


Following this process will generate a new AppScan Source application file (.paf) in the same directory as the Visual Studio solution file and will link it to saved assessment (ozasmt) file. This will allow users to perform bundle actions such as creating or modifying or removing bundles for the assessment. 

Bundle data will be stored in the AppScan Source application (.paf) file. Additionally, since all application source files are relative to the Visual Studio solution file, if a user has the source code on the workstation in their original locations, double-clicking a finding in the Findings View will open the source file in the built-in source code editor/viewer.