Title: IBM Chairperson is not the Moderator when sending Notes Calendar Online Meeting invitations to a Sametime server when authenticating with a third-party LDAP - United States

Text:
External LDAP; third-party vender; lightweight directory access protocol; emeeting; Calendaring and Scheduling; C&S; SunOne; Sun One; MS Active Directory LDAP; Tivoli Directory Server; Attend Online Meeting; meeting chair; moderator; distinguished name; DN; Notes name format; binds; bound TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM
You have configured Lotus® Sametime® to authenticate against an external LDAP source such as Tivoli® Directory Server, Microsoft® Active Directory, or Sun One. Is it possible to use the Notes® Calendar to schedule on-line meetings with the Sametime Server?

CAUSE
Though this configuration can send meeting invitations to the Sametime server, the different methods of authentication prevent the meeting's chair from being designated as the moderator of the meeting. 

 For example, when the Lotus Notes user accesses his mail file or any other Domino database, the authentication is calculated by leveraging the Notes ID file. The name that is passed to the server is the canonical name from the Notes ID, which follows the following format:
cn=firstname lastname/o=organization

However, when the Lotus Sametime server authenticates users against a third-party LDAP source, the name that is passed is the distinguished name (DN) of the user, which resembles the following format:
cn=firstname lastname,cn=users,dc=orgname,dc=com

When scheduling a web conference meeting within Notes C&S, the name that is passed to the Sametime server comes from the Chair field. Additionally, this name is in the Notes name format (cn=firstname lastname/o=organization), not the distinguished name format (cn=firstname lastname,cn=users,dc=orgname,dc=com) which is expected by the Sametime server.

When the Notes user click the Attend Online Meeting link in the calendar, the link directs them to the Sametime Web Conferencing server that is authenticating against the external LDAP source. Thus, when you log in to Sametime you are using your LDAP name and password as opposed to your Notes name and password. Logging into the web conference is successful, however it is impossible to be recognized as the meeting moderator because the names do not match. The preceding is not a fully supported configuration. 

**Note:** This issue does not occur when utilizing Lotus Domino LDAP as the LDAP source.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
This issue has been reported to Quality Engineering as SPR# IDEA6W9M2Q and fixed in Lotus Domino version 8.5 and Lotus Sametime 8.0. To realize the fix, you must be using the Resource and Reservations 8.5 database on a Domino 8.5 server. 

For earlier versions if you cannot upgrade immediately, a hotfix is available. To obtain the hotfix, contact Lotus Support.

Workaround:
In order to schedule Sametime meetings directly from the Lotus Notes Calendar, configure a Sametime Web Conferencing server that authenticates with the Domino Directory or a Domino LDAP server.



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Messaging Applications IBM Notes Calendaring and Scheduling 8.0, 7.0, 6.5