Title: IBM Data Changes Not Propogating Between Weblogic Clustered (load balanced) Servers - United States

Text:
xa transactions load balanced caching updates TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Administrative changes made on one server in a Weblogic clustered configuration are not displayed on other servers in the cluster until the servers are restarted. Examples include modifying a user or modifying a field description. 

CAUSE
XA Transactions should be enabled in order to ensure synchronization between database updates and the notification to cluster members to update their caches

ENVIRONMENT
Weblogic on Windows

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Use the following tests to see if your cluster members are properly synchronizing changes.




 1. Log into OpenPages on any cluster member server. 
 2. Edit a user. 
 3. Edit a field description. 
 4. Log into different cluster members to see if the changes have propagated.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Steps to Enable XA in Weblogic: 

 1.  Navigate to Weblogic console. http://<server-name>:7001/console where you replace <server-name> with the appropriate server name. 
 2.  Login in using the appropriate console credentials. 
 3.  On the home page, click on the JMS Modules link under Domain Configurations > Messaging. 
 4.  Under JMS Modules, click on OpenPagesJMS Module 
 5.  Under Summary of Resources, click on OpenPagesTCF. 
 6.  Under Settings for OpenPagesTCF, click on Transactions tab. 
 7.  Click on “Lock & Edit” button on the Upper left hand corner. 
 8.  Enable the check box “XA Connection Factory Enabled” and click save. 
 9.  Once you click on save, you will see “Settings updated successfully” message. 
 10. Click on “Activate Changes” on the Upper left hand corner. 
 11. Confirm “All changes have been activated. No restarts are necessary.” message appears. 
 12. Logout of Weblogic console. 
 13. Repeat this above procedure for the IBPM admin server. http://<server-name>:49901/console where you replace <server-name> with the appropriate value. 
 14. Restart services (required despite the earlier no restart needed message)