Title: IBM Tivoli Netcool/Impact 4.0 - United States

Text:
 FLASH (ALERT)

ABSTRACT
 Netcool/Impact provides a common platform for ubiquitous data access and integration that enables easy access to mission critical data across the business and IT silos. Armed with data from virtually any data source, administrators can deploy simple policies that deliver a wide range of automatic event enrichment, correlation, tailored visualization, and a range of other automated actions. The advanced logic engine of Netcool/Impact allows an administrator to easily define what should happen and when, making it easier to perform essential functions such as event prioritization, business impact analysis, and root cause analysis. 

CONTENT
Announcing
Netcool Impact 4.0
General Availability December 2006

This sales alert announces the availability of Netcool/Impact version 4.0 on Dec. 1, 2006 and available on Dec. 1, 2006 through the product distribution centers (GA).


Product overview 


Netcool/Impact provides a common platform for ubiquitous data access and integration that enables easy access to mission critical data across the business and IT silos. Armed with data from virtually any data source, administrators can deploy simple policies that deliver a wide range of automatic event enrichment, correlation, tailored visualization, and a range of other automated actions. The advanced logic engine of Netcool/Impact allows an administrator to easily define what should happen and when, making it easier to perform essential functions such as event prioritization, business impact analysis, and root cause analysis.

Netcool/Impact also compliments and extends the value of many Netcool and Tivoli products, including Netcool/Omnibus & TEC, ITM/ITCAM & TEP, CCMDB, TBSM & Netcool/RAD, Netview & Netcool/Precision IP, Netcool/Proviso, and the MRO products. The primary areas where it delivers its greatest value are:
Event/Network Correlation – asset/inventory integration, complex correlations, and reconciliation
Operations Automation – automated actions (virtual operator), escalation, notification, suppression, and enrichment
Business Process Management - use services in connected applications/systems to perform business operations (e.g. calculating a repayment plan for a loan) and link in human actions where required as part of the automated process. 

What’s new? 

Event Readers
Netcool/Impact 4.0 (Impact) improves on previous versions by allowing any supported SQL data source to act as an event repository. This means that Impact can now act as a business event correlation engine in the same way it has previously has handled network events and events from Netcool/Omnibus.

Event Listeners for Oracle and JMS
In addition to the event readers for SQL data sources, Impact 4.0 adds the ability to act as an event listener for Oracle, JMS and WebServices data sources. An event listener receives events from data sources when there are changes (insert, update, delete), which places less of a burden on the data source than does polling for changes.

Leverage TEC as a primary event source
Impact 4.0 allows TEC to be used as a primary event source as well as Netcool/Omnibus and other databases.

Usability enhancements
Impact 4.0 supports compiling policies giving enhanced performance and provides read-only views and encryption of policies for improved security. The policy developer can also easily chain policies, which improves the policy development experience by allowing for better logic isolation and through that a more maintainable solution. New publish capabilities have been added to easily package and move work done in development and test, into production, preventing changes and removing unnecessary administration.

Additional DSA support
Impact 4.0 includes support for numerous Data Source Adapters including the Alcatel 5620 DSA, Cramer Dimension, JMS, LDAP, SNMP, TIBCO/Rendezvous, Web Services, XML, TCP/IP Sockets, and SQL database adapters including DB2, Oracle, MS SQL, MySQL, ODBC etc.