Title: IBM Procedure to Test Sending Email From Maximo - United States

Text:
TPAEWORKFLOW; TPAEESC; email; communications templates TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 My email is not getting sent from Workflow, is it possible to tell if it is a Workflow problem or a general problem sending email? 

ANSWER
Email in Maximo 6 and 7 is sent starting with a Communications Template. Often a client reports that they attach the Communications Template to the proper place in a Workflow process but the email never goes out. This technote describes how to test the Communications Template and sending it independently of using Workflow. 

First create a Communications Template for the same Object as your Workflow process. Put at least one Recipient on the Recipients tab. (To enter a Recipient go to the Recipients tab and click on the little, square "Show Table" icon to the right of the Download button on one of the four sections to open up the section and expose the New Row button.) Save the Communications Template and change the status to Active. 

 

Now go to the application that the Communications Template was made for, for example, if it was made for the Work order Object go to Work Order Tracking. Bring up any record. On the Select Action menu choose Create - Communication. On the Create Communication dialog select a Communications Template in the Template field. The Communications Template comes into the window and shows you who it is going to and also you can see all the substitution variables be replaced with the proper values from the record. Make sure there is at least one recipient and click Send. 

 

At this point either the Communications Template gets sent to the proper recipients proving that email can be sent from Maximo or you get errors showing what is wrong. When you do a test like this using Workflow or an Escalation to send the Communications Template the errors do not appear on screen, they go into the logs if the logging is set to record them. 

 

You may see an error saying that the SMTP host cannot be found. In that case you would get the proper name of your SMTP host from your system administrators and enter it for the mail.smtp.host parameter in the Maximo.Properties file (Maximo 6) or in the System Properties application (Maximo 7). 

 

If you are sending the Communications Template to a Role you may see that the Role is not populated, or populated with something you didn't expect. 

 

Whatever errors you see are clearly visible so they can be addressed more easily than ones that may have gone to the logs. 

 

Fix the errors and try again.