Title: IBM White page logging into Service Registry dashboard using Internet Explorer 11 - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Using WebSphere Service Registry and Repository (WSRR) and Internet Explorer 11, the log in page for Service Registry Dashboard has a wide white background and the Service Registry Dashboard banner does not appear in the back ground. Once valid user credentials are entered and the Log in button is pressed, a white screen is displayed and the dashboard does not work. The following error is shown in the web browser console:
scrollIntoView: [object Error] 

CAUSE
Internet Explorer 11 is in compatibility mode. This means it runs the dashboard web site in Compatibility View behaving as Internet Explorer 7. Dashboard is not supported in Internet Explorer 7, or Internet Explorer 11 in Internet Explorer 7 compatibility mode.

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Check the web browser console for the following error once you log in: 

scrollIntoView: [object Error] 

 

Show the web browser developer tools and check if the web browser is in compatibility mode: 

Press F12 or click the Cog Icon and select F12 Developer Tools. 

In the Developer Tools window, click the Emulation tab. 

In the Document mode pull-down menu, ensure it is set to Edge(Default). If the value is 7 then the web site is in Internet Explorer 7 compatibility mode and the dashboard will not work.



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Internet Explorer 11 must be switched into standards mode. 

If Internet Explorer is managed locally, and is not managed by Group Policy, perform the following steps: 

Click the Cog Icon and select Compatibility View settings. Or click Tools -> Compatibility View settings. 

In the Compatibility View Settings dialog, uncheck "Use microsoft compatibility lists". Uncheck "Display intranet sites in Compatibility View". 

Ensure the address of the Service Registry dashboard is not in the "Websites you've added to Compatibility View" list. 

 

If Internet Explorer is managed by Group Policy, you must contact your Group Policy administrator to ensure that Compatibility View is not turned on for the Service Registry dashboard website.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Manage Internet Explorer 11 compatibility using Group P [http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn321457.aspx]
Document Mode in Internet Explorer [http://www.modern.ie/en-us/f12]