Title: IBM When following the Metrics wizard to import source Metric data, the folder containing the file is not visible and an error message is displayed - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In a multi-dispatcher installation of Cognos where at least one of the dispatchers runs Metric Studio, the files do not appear in the list which is supposed to show the appropriate directories. 

SYMPTOM
The default deployment location may not accessible from all services in this distributed installation.
The system administrator should define an alternate deployment location in the metrics server deployment_locations.xml before you proceed.


CAUSE
In a distributed environment, only servers that have Content Manager installed have the ability to set the deployment location through Cognos Configuration. If this default location is not accessible by the Metrics Application Server, and the user has not specified an alternate import source.

ENVIRONMENT
Distributed install where Content Manager component is installed on one server, 

and the Metrics Application component is installed on a different server.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
In a distributed install, the deployment location must be defined in the deployment_locations.xml file. 

The deployment location must be defined on every metric server computer (where Application Tier Components are installed). 
Before you define the deployment location for Metric Studio, create a shared folder that will serve as the deployment location. The folder must be accessible to all of the 
metric server computers. 
Important: Create just one deployment location folder. The deployment location is selected when a metric package is created. The same deployment location must be used for every metric package. 
Steps for a Deployment Location on UNIX or Linux: 
1. On the metric server computer (where Application Tier Components 
are installed), go to c8_location/configuration and edit deployment_locations.xml using an XML editor. 
2. Select the following section: 
Unix 
Mount 
/mount/deployment 
3. Cut the section and paste it after this line: 
DELETE this line to remove the xml comment tag --> 
4. Replace /mount/deployment with the NFS mounted path to the shared folder.
If IBM Cognos BI is deployed to an application server other than Tomcat, ensure that the location is an absolute path. 
Steps for a Deployment Location on Windows: 
1. On the metric server computer (where Application Tier Components are installed), go to c8_location\configuration and edit deployment_locations.xml using an XML editor. 
2. Select the following section: 
windows 
share \\winserver\deployment_location 
3. Cut the section and paste it after this line: 
DELETE this line to remove the xml comment tag --> 
4. Replace \\winserver\deployment_location with the UNC path to the shared folder. If IBM Cognos BI is deployed to an application server other than Tomcat, ensure that the location is an absolute path. 

 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos Business Intelligence Metrics Studio HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, Windows 8.4, 8.4.1