Title: IBM I am unable to install IBM SPSS product from the installation CD. I am not getting an error message. What can I do? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I have placed my IBM SPSS product installation CD in my computers CD/DVD drive, but I can't install my software. Either the CD just spins and the product installation menu never appears or, if the installation menu appears, I select the 'install' option, but the product does not install. What can I do? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
There are a number of possible causes for this symptom. The following instructions are designed to guide you through resolving most common causes.

The two most common types of problems are:

(1) Upon inserting the IBM SPSS product installation CD, no menu appears providing you with the option to install SPSS. 
(2) Upon inserting the IBM SPSS product installation CD, a menu appears allowing you to select the option to install my IBM SPSS product. However, after selecting this option the SPSS program does not install.

If the problem you are experiencing is more like (1) go to (A1).
If the problem you are experiencing is more like (2), select the "Browse the CD ROM" option and see instructions in (B1)

(A1)
If available, insert the IBM SPSS product installation CD in a different computer.
If the same problem occurs, see instructions in (A2).
If the problem does not occur, see instructions in (B1).

(A2)
Remove the IBM SPSS product installation CD.
If disk is clean and without cracks, see instructions in (A4).
If the IBM SPSS product installation CD is not clean, see instructions in section (A3)
If the IBM SPSS product installation CD is cracked, contact your software vendor to request a replacement.

(A3)
Use soap, warm water and a soft cloth that is not abrasive to clean the surface.
Thoroughly dry with a clean, soft cloth.
Verify that all foreign material has been removed.
Reinsert the the IBM SPSS product installation CD . 
If the installation menu still does not appear, see instructions in (A4)
If the installation menu appears, select the "Browse the CD ROM" option and see instructions in (B1)

(A4)
Open My Computer (XP) or Computer (Vista) or Finder (Macintosh).
Browse to CD drive.
If you can view the files/folders on the CD, see instructions in (B1a) for Microsoft Windows operating systems OR (B1b) for Apple Macintosh operating systems.
If you can not view the files or folders on the CD, see instructions in (A5)

(A5)
Remove the the IBM SPSS product installation CD .
Locate another program installation CD from another product.
Insert the CD.
If the alternate CD starts normally, contact your vendor for a replacement SPSS installation CD.
If the alternative CD does not start normally, you may be experiencing a problem with your drive which may require technical assistance to correct.

(B1a)
Locate the folder labeled 'SPSS' or 'Statistics' (without quotes).
Right-click on the folder.
Select the Copy menu option.
Minimize the window where the CD files appear.
Go to your Windows or Macintosh Desktop (which appears when you boot the computer).
Right-click on an open area of the Windows Desktop (not on a folder).
Select the Paste menu option.
Wait for your computer to complete copying the folder and included files.
If the SPSS folder and included files copies successfully, there should be a folder labeled 'SPSS' or 'Statistics' (without quotes) on your Windows Desktop. See instructions in (B2a).
If the folder and included files do not copy successfully, contact SPSS Technical Support.

(B1b)
Locate the folder labeled 'SPSS' or 'Statistics' (without quotes).
Drag (or copy) the folder to your Macintosh Desktop.
If the SPSS folder and included files copies successfully, there should be a folder labeled 'SPSS' or 'Statistics' (without quotes) on your Macintosh Desktop. See instructions in (B2b).
If the folder and included files do not copy successfully, contact SPSS Technical Support.

(B2a)
Double-click the SPSS folder located on your Windows Desktop.
Vista users: Right-click on the file labeled 'Setup' (without quotes) and select the 'Run as administrator' (without quotes) menu option.
XP users: Double-click on the file labeled 'Setup' (without quotes).
Install the software providing the correct responses when prompted.
If SPSS installs normally, proceed to license your product in the normal manner.
If SPSS does not install normally, contact SPSS Technical Support.

(B2b)
Open the 'SPSS' or 'Statistics' folder.
Locate the file whose label includes 'Installer'.
(This file should be a 'disk image' file with the file extension of 'dmg'.)
Double-click the 'dmg' file.
Another file with the name 'Installer' should appear in a separate window.
(This file should be an 'application' file with the file extension of 'app'.)
Drag the 'app' file to your Desktop.
Double-click this file.
The installation process should begin.
Install the software providing the correct responses when prompted

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 79748