Title: IBM The Eclipse documentation for generating JAXB classes is incomplete - United States

Text:
RAD; Generate; JAXB classes; xjc; XJCFacade; com.sun.tools.xjc.XCJFacade; JAXB; necessary libraries; jars; eclipse; schema; xsd; Generate Java; java TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Attempts to generate JAXB classes using the class generation wizard in IBM Rational Application Developer for WebSphere Software (RAD) 8.x results in the error "NoClassDefFoundError: com.sun.tools.xjc.xjcfacade" when you right-click on {SomeSchema}.xsd > Generate > JAXB Classes. 

SYMPTOM
The full error message is as follows: 



//-- JVM Launcher
(X) could not find main class: com.sun.tools.xjc.XJCFacade.
Program will exit.
//--


Console reports:


..
... NoClassDefFoundError: com.sun.tools.xjc.XCJFacade
caused by
... java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: com.sun.tools.xjc.XCJFacade
..


Additional errors seen:

The classpath for this project does not appear to contain the necessary libraries to proceed with class generation. Please ensure that a JAXB implementation is available on the classpath.



CAUSE
This message appears because the Generate > JAXB classes wizard belongs to base Eclipse and requires additional libraries to be configured in the runtime to complete successfully.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
In Rational Application Developer, you can generate JAXB classes from a schema using one of the following methods: 

 

 * OPTION 1: When using Rational Application Developer (RAD), the recommended way is to use the Generate > Java option when right clicking on your schema file.
   
   The redbook: Rational Application Developer for WebSphere Software V8 Programming Guide [http://www.redbooks.ibm.com/redbooks/pdfs/sg247835.pdf], has an example of the workaround using right-click on {SomeSchema}.xsd, and select:
   Generate > Java. This is in section: 8.4.1 Generating JAXB classes from an XML schema
   
   Note: The "XML" tools feature in RAD must be installed/selected in IBM Installation Manager (IM).
   If not done so, use IM > Modify to select/install this feature.
   This feature is also available in Rational Software Architect for WebSphere ( RSA4WS)
   ----
   
   OR (not recommended)
   
 * OPTION 2: Continue to use the Generate > JAXB classes wizard with an applied workaround. 
   
   Note: Generate > JAXB classes has been removed in RAD 9.0
   
   WORKAROUND for RAD 8.x:
   
   Although IBM Support will not provide or assist in getting necessary libraries/jars, it has been found the reported error can be avoided by adding the following jaxb jars to the project Java Build Path: Libraries:
   
   "jaxb-xjc-2.1.10.1.jar", "jaxb-xjc-2.1.9-osgi.jar" and jaxb-impl-2.1.12.jar"
   
   Using the jaxb jars, it was possible to use the Generate > JAXB classes with no errors from the wizard.
   
   The com.sun.tools.xjc.XJCFacade class was in jaxb-xjc-2.1.10.1.jar and it had dependencies on the other jars. 
   
   Note: Depending on your schema and jaxb version, there may be other dependencies/jars. 
   You need to search for relevant jaxb jars online. 
   
   The jaxb jars and any generated artifacts are not supported by IBM.