Title: IBM How to limit access to IBM FileNet Application Engine / Workplace? - United States

Text:
workplace; access; rights; restrict; limit TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How can I configure Workplace so that certain users do not have access? 

ANSWER
There are two answers to this question, depending on your particular requirement; 

Only certain users have standard access to any component of P8; 

If the requirement is that only some users should have access to any component of P8, configure the "User Base DN" field of the LDAP configuration. Inside the Directory Services provider, create an "Organizational Unit", and include only those users and groups inside this Organizational Unit that should have access to P8. In the LDAP Configuration (on the Web Application Server AND the Content Engine) configure the "User Base DN" field to include this Organizational Unit. The entry should begin with "OU=...". 

This is best done when the Content Engine is installed. Changing these fields at a later time may have side effects, e.g. when some entities belong to users who, for P8, will not exist anymore after this change. 

 

Certain users have standard access to P8, but no access to Workplace or Office Integration; 

If the requirement is that some users should not have access to Workplace, e.g. because their job-role does not require it, then visibility of the Object Store which stores the User Preferences can be limited so as to exclude those users. 

 When a user logs in, Application Engine (Workplace) will try to open or create the user preferences. If no access is possible to the Object Store which is configured in the bootstrap properties of Application Engine to contain the Site- and User-Preferences, then logon is denied, and a CredentialsException will be thrown. 

Technically, this is best done when the Object Stores are created. Reserve an Object Store for the sole purpose of storing the Site- and User-Preferences. Commonly, this Object Store carries the name "SysOS". When creating it, the Wizard prompts for Users and Groups who can use the Object Store. Here, a group such as "WorkplaceUsers" can be designated. The group must have been previously created and must contain the users who should have access to Workplace.