Title: IBM ITCAM4Tx Tracking: Tx Reporter - Transactions Total time & baseline questions - United States

Text:
71TT-CONF; 71TT-RPT; 71TT-WV; itcam; transaction tracking; collector; reporter TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Provide extra information regarding Transactions "Total Time" and "baseline" fields reported in ITM TEP under Transaction Reporter -> "Transactions" workspace.



CAUSE
Q1) How is "Total (Response) Time" measured or calculated in the Tx Reporter (to) agent "Transactions" workspace? 
Q2) How are baselines set for URLs and application?
Q3) Can we set the baseline per transaction (URL) manually in Tx Reporter (to) agent?

ANSWER
A1) Total (response) Time

It measures the average time for a transaction to complete, in milliseconds. The value in this column does not include the time taken for failures, unless all transactions have failed.

In an aggregate TEP workspace, Total Time is the calculated average time that a transaction took, i.e. the average of the Total Time metric for all 'instances' of that transaction. But what is Total Time?

Data Collectors (such as Tomcat DC, etc) sends a series of tracking events (STARTED, INBOUND, OUTBOUND, FINISHED) to the Transaction Collector to represent a transaction, and the Transaction Reporter uses these to formulate an end-to-end view of the customer's application environment and calculate various performance metrics.

Tx Reporter agent reports the Total Time of a transaction instance to be the difference between the TIMESTAMP of the STARTED and the FINISHED events received.


A2) Baseline and Deviation:

The Tx Reporter Transaction baseline is calculated automatically, based on Tx Reporter agent configuration; Data (averaged) present in Tx Reporter agent cache History is used as a baseline for the workspaces.

If you use the Tivoli Manage Tivoli Monitoring Services on the Tx Reporter agent, and access via the 'Reconfigure' option the Transaction Reporter Agent Configuration window, you will see, in Tab : History, in the Field : Baseline - The current setting for baseline computation.

=====

Extracted from IBM InfoCenter for ITCAM for Transactions product:

Description : The type of baseline calculation used to report time and rate deviation metrics. 

Select from:
- ALL_HOURS - Average of all data in the Transaction Reporter history store.
- TIME_OF_DAY - Average of all data in the same hour of the day for the previous x days, depending on the value set for the History Duration.

For example, 9-10am of each day for the last 3 days.
- TIME_OF WEEK - Average of all data in the same hour and day of the week for the previous x weeks, depending on the value set for the History Duration. For example, 9-10am every Monday for the last 3 weeks.

=====

Regarding deviation metrics, the Transaction Reporter keeps a 24-hour rolling average of these Total Times to be used as a baseline so that it can compare the Total Time for the current 5-minute period to that baseline and report back how much the current Total Time has deviated from its calculated baseline. Initially you will see deviation and baseline values to be zero (as you may see in one of the workspace). This is normal for new transactions, when the Transaction Reporter have not received enough data to build the baseline. If you are getting data for about 20 minutes, you should then start to see some baseline values.

A3) Manual Baseline setting with Tx Reporter agent:

Manual setting of baseline values are currently not supported. Out of the box, ITCAM for Transactions product supplied 3 types of baseline calculations to try cater for different traffic behaviors.

 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 itcam for transactions
itcamfortx
itcam4tx