Title: IBM Does IBM Case Manager support form-based authentication for Single Sign-On (SSO)? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Does IBM Case Manager support form-based authentication for Single Sign-On (SSO)? 

CAUSE
Users attempting to run various steps in the IBM Case Manager configuration tool ("\CaseManagement\configure\configmgr.exe") cannot connect to the associated instance of IBM Content Navigator when it is configured to use SSO with the "Application server form-based authentication" option specified for "IBM Content Navigator authentication" in the "Configure the IBM Content Navigator Web Application" step of the IBM Content Navigator configuration profile. The error received in the IBM Case Manager configuration tool is typically "java.io.IOException: stream is closed" or some similar error message relating to network connectivity or configuration.
Note: The configuration tool is known as the "Case Manager administration client" in releases 5.0.0, 5.1.0, and 5.1.1 and as the "Case Manager configuration tool" in releases 5.2.0 and 5.2.1

This error occurs because the IBM Case Manager (ICM) configuration tool does not support the "Application server form-based authentication" option specified for "IBM Content Navigator authentication" in the "Configure the IBM Content Navigator Web Application" step of the IBM Content Navigator configuration profile being run in the IBM Content Navigator Configuration and Deployment tool ("\ECMClient\configure\configmgr.exe"). 


ANSWER
The IBM Case Manager (ICM) configuration tool does not support the the "Application server form-based authentication" option specified for "IBM Content Navigator authentication" in the "Configure the IBM Content Navigator Web Application" step of the IBM Content Navigator configuration profile. 


However, there is a difference between "Application server authentication" with an SSO server that uses a form and "Application server form-based authentication." In this case, there are three possible options for "IBM Content Navigator authentication" in the "Configure the IBM Content Navigator Web Application" step of an IBM Content Navigator (ICN) configuration profile:


 * IBM Content Navigator desktop authentication
   
   This option is always supported. It will not work with Single Sign-On (SSO) but can be used as a temporary workaround for running the IBM Case Manager (ICM) configuration tool while Single Sign-On (SSO) is disabled. 
   
 * Application server authentication
   
   This option is supported even if a form is used by the SSO server provided that the form used is either the default form for the SSO provider or, if it is a custom form, that it implements the same fields (in the same sequence) and the same authentication logic as the default form for the SSO provider. 
   
   If the SSO provider used is IBM Tivoli Access Manager for e-business, you must also configure basic authentication as a fallback. To configure basic authentication in this way, set "ba-auth = both" in the WebSEAL configuration file. Failure to set this value prevents the IBM Case Manager configuration tool from connecting to the IBM Content Navigator deployment in the associated application server. 
   
 * Application server form-based authentication
   
   This option is not supported by the IBM Case Manager configuration tool. 



Other configurations or expedients might work, but are not officially supported.