Title: IBM Maximo Install fails with Unable To Create Secure Connection to SQL Server - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Attempting to Install Maximo using SQL Server 2012 or 2014 fails due to an error when creating a secure connection to the database. 

SYMPTOM
Updated SQL Server patches use higher versions of SSL which do not work with older versions of the SQL Server driver.


CAUSE
SSLv3 does not work with older SQL Server drivers. Maximo does not support driver 4.2 since it runs on Java 8 instead of 6 or 7.

ENVIRONMENT
This happens when using SQL Server 2012 or 2014 and updated patches of SQL Server.

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
The connection to the database will throw an error that will look similar to this:
The driver could not establish a secure connection to SQL Server by using Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)encryption. Error: "SQL Server did not return a response. The connection has been closed." Throwable occurred: com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerException: The driver could not establish a secure connection to SQL Server by using Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) encryption.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Some SSL connection issues can be corrected by updating the driver, so updating the driver is the recommended first step.

First download the latest version of the SQL Server JDBC driver from Microsoft. For Maximo 7.6 this will be the version 6 driver. For Maximo 7.5 it will be the version 4.0 driver.
Find your current driver in SMP\maximo\applications\maximo\lib and make a backup.
Extract the driver after download and locate the appropriate sqljdbc.jar. For Maximo 7.5, it will under the sqljdbc_4.0\enu\sqljdbc4.jar. For Maximo 7.6, it will be sqljdbc_6.0\enu\jre7\sqljdbc41.jar.

For Feature Pack Installs, and new 7.6 Install installs (After Installation Manager has run but before Configuration tool):
Rename the file to sqljdbc.jar and place it in the SMP\maximo\applications\maximo\lib folder.

For New 7.5 Installs:
Run the Launchpad and continue with the install to the point where the database connection fails. 
Go to Start -> Run and run %temp%.
Located the Maximo temp files, and find the sqljdbc.jar file.
Delete this file (You may need to cancel the install to proceed) and place the newly downloaded and renamed driver in the same location.
Change the sqljdbc.jar file permissions so that it can't be deleted by the installer.

Continue with the install and see if the database connection succeeds.

If the connection still fails, then SSLv3 needs to be disabled on the database. Instructions for disabling SSLv3 for SQL Server can be found under Microsoft knowledge documents (Instructions unfortunately can't be provided here).