Title: IBM Content Navigator known issue: The download count is incremented each time a document is accessed (IBM FileNet P8) - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT DOCUMENTATION

ABSTRACT
 The download count is incremented any time a document is read from the Content Platform Engine. 

CONTENT
The download count is incremented when you render a thumbnail or preview a document, even if the document is not downloaded to the local drive. Using thumbnails that are generated by Content Platform Engine ensures that viewing thumbnails from the IBM Content Navigator content list does not cause the download count to artificially increment every time a thumbnail is generated in the browser. 

Thumbnails that are generated by Content Platform Engine are stored as image files that IBM Content Navigator can reference. If IBM Content Navigator generates the thumbnails, it must access the document to do so. When Content Platform Engine is configured to generate the thumbnails, it accesses the file once. Later views use a stored copy of the thumbnail. 

To use Content Platform Engine to generate thumbnails: 

 1. Configure Content Platform Engine to generate thumbnails. For more information, see Generating thumbnails [http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSNW2F_5.2.0/com.ibm.p8.ce.admin.tasks.doc/p8pcc186.htm] [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27042879]. 
 2. Update each IBM FileNet P8 repository in your IBM Content Navigator environment to use thumbnails that are generated by Content Platform Engine.  1. Sign in to IBM Content Navigator as an administrative user. 
     2. Open the Administration View. 
     3. Click Repositories and select your IBM FileNet P8 repository. 
     4. Configure the Browse View to display thumbnails that are generated by Content Platform Engine:  1. Select the Browse tab 
         2. Add the Thumbnails* property to the Selected Properties list
        
        
     5. Configure the Search View to display thumbnails that are generated by Content Platform Engine:  1. Select the Search tab 
         2. Open Search Results 
         3. Add the Thumbnails* property to the Displayed Properties list
        
        
     6. Save your changes.