Title: IBM I am receiving the message 'A problem caused the program to stop working correctly' when starting the Statistics program and the program will not start. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I have a computer with the Microsoft Windows Vista operating system install. My Statistics program was working previously, but now I am receiving the message 'A problem caused the program to stop working correctly' when starting the Statistics program and the program will not start. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
This problem most likely due to a change of security settings on your computer as a result of a Microsoft Windows Vista security update that changes the security settings on your computer. 

Close all open windows.
Select Start.
Select Programs/All Program menu option.
Select the SPSSInc folder.
Select the folder that corresponds to the type of SPSS program you have installed.
Right-click on the SPSS program icon.
Select Properties (menu).
Select Compatibility (tab).
If "Run this program in compatibility mode for" is selected, remove the check-mark from the selection box.
Locate the area labeled 'Privilege Level'.
Locate the dialog check-box locate 'Run this program as an administrator' (if available).
Select (place a check-mark in) 'Run this program as an administrator' (if available).
Select Apply (button).
Select 'Show settings for all users' (button).
(If prompted by User Account Control, select the 'Allow' option.)
If "Run this program in compatibility mode for" is selected, remove the check-mark from the selection box.
Under the area labeled 'Privilege Level', locate 'Run this program as an administrator' (if available).
Select (place a check-mark in) 'Run this program as an administrator' (if available).
Select Apply (button).
Select OK (button).
Select OK (button).
The Properties window should now close.
Start your SPSS program.
The problem should now be corrected

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 84634