Title: IBM Text Wrap Display in Print Preview and the Worksheet Differ - United States

Text:
Print; Preview; Out; Spreadsheet; Wysiwyg; Look the Same.; 123 for Windows; Workstation/Desktop; Printing; General Print Functionality TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
A customer entered text in a cell in 123; the customer then selected to wrap text within the specified cell. 

When the customer previews the worksheet , the wrapped text may look different in preview than it did in the worksheet. The wrapped text prints the same way it appears in Print Preview. In some cases, a line of text disappears in the preview and the printout.


ANSWER
123 calculates the display for the worksheet and the display for Print Preview differently; as a result, wrapped text, and text boxes may differ in appearance. To workaround the difference, customers should increase the column width or row height in the spreadsheet until all of the text appears in Print Preview. 


Background Information:


123 Print Preview calculates the preview display based on the printer metrics of the current printer driver. The 123 worksheet display does not; as a result the program does not adjust the column width or row height in the spreadsheet for printing purposes.

If the printer cannot properly fit all of the wrapped text into the specified cell, text is cutoff in both print preview and the printout even though all of the data appears in the worksheet. 

Customers can workaround display issues by adjusting the column and row width and height. Since Print Preview is a printing tool, customers can use the display in determining modifications to make in the spreadsheet. Once the customer can see all of the text in Print-Preview, all of the text should appear in the printout as well.

Supporting Information:

To wrap text in 123 9.x and 97:
1. Select the desired cell.
2. Select Range, Range Properties from the menu.
3. Select the alignment tab (second tab from the right).
4. Select the "Wrap text in cell" check box.

To wrap text in 5.x and 4.x:
ALT Style, Alignment, Wrap, Text,

Related Documents:




HISTORICAL NUMBER
 119302