Title: IBM Specified driver could not be loaded due to system error 1157 or 126 - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I am trying to create a new data source in the ODBC data source Administrator by using the SPSS_OEM ODBC drivers. I can select the driver and enter in what I think is the correct information to access my data, but I keep receiving this error message when I try to test the connection:

Specified driver could not be loaded due to system error 126 (Driver)

or

Specified driver could not be loaded due to system error 1157 (Driver)

Where (Driver) is the name of the driver you are using.

What is happening? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
There are four possible reasons for receiving this error message:

1) The appropriate client software needs to be installed. 

Refer to the System Requirements of the driver you are trying to configure for the specific client software requirements. System Requirements can be found in the Connect ODBC Reference Guide. The Connect ODBC Reference Guide can be accessed on the SPSS CD-ROM under /Merant/books/Connodbc/Books.pdf. Choose the Connect ODBC Reference Guide from the menu.

For example, if you are trying to configure a Data Source for the DataDirect Connect ODBC driver for Oracle, you must have SQL*NET or Net8 installed (the client software version required will depend on the database version). Users must have the 32-bit version of the client software installed for a 32-bit driver/database and the 16-bit version of the client software a 16-bit driver/database. Reboot your computer after any changes. 

2) The client software is not on System Path.

Please refer to solution # 19786, "What are the client software requirements for the SPSS_OEM Connect ODBC drivers?". This solution contains a list of file names that can be used to locate the client installation directories. The files in that list are not the only client software files needed, they are listed only to assist in locating the installation directory of the client software packages. The directory where the database-specific client software is installed must be added to the System Path. 

There are occasions when the system path is modified and the path to the driver is no longer being read correctly. To find out how your system path is being read, open an MS-DOS prompt and type in the word PATH at the prompt and verify that the path to the location of the driver file is being displayed. If not, check your system path and make sure that there are no typos, incorrect spaces, or incorrect path delimiters, such as using a colon (:) to separate path entries instead of a semicolon (;). Modify the system path to point to the location of the driver file and remember to reboot if the machine runs Windows 9x or Me.

If you are using Windows NT or Windows 2000, the System Path is set in the System Control Panel. Click on the Environment tab. At the top of the Window, there are a list of System environment variables. Scroll down until you see PATH. Click on it, and the System Path will appear at the bottom of the window. You can edit the system PATH at this location. If the Path is long, it may scroll beyond the text field. You can see the rest of the path by using your arrow keys to move the cursor to the right.

If you are using Windows 95, 98 or ME, the System Path is set in the autoexec.bat file. You can open this file in a text editor and directly edit the path in this file. You will need to reboot your computer for any changes to take effect.

3) The ODBC driver directory is not on System Path. 

The System Path must include the directory that contains the drivers. The default installation directory for the SPSS_OEM drivers is C:\Program Files\SPSS Data Access Pack. Make sure the installation directory for the drivers is located on the path. Sometimes the order of the items on the System Path can make a difference. Make sure that the driver and client software directories are first. Reboot after any changes. 

4) The ODBC driver registry keys are incorrect.

With Connect ODBC 3.5 and higher, verify that the registry settings at HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\ODBC\ODBCINST.INI\ point to the appropriate driver and setup .dlls, and modify them if necessary. You can access the registry by going to Start->Run and typing in regedit. You will need to have permission to edit the system registry. For example, if the Connect ODBC v3.7 driver for Btrieve has been installed to the directory C:\ODBC370\DRIVERS\, make sure that the "DRIVER" and "SET UP" registry key entries appear as follows in your system registry and reboot after any changes:

DRIVER = "C:\ODBC370\DRIVERS\IVBTR16.DLL"
SET UP = "C:\ODBC370\DRIVERS\IVBTR16S.DLL"

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our C&DS forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/collaboration.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 19784