Title: IBM Unable to set FileNet Workplace or FileNet WorkplaceXT Site Preferences. - United States

Text:
Workplace site preferences; Dynamic Referential Containment Relationship; Application Engine; ae; ce; Content Engine; Workplace TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Unable to set FileNet Application Engine Workplace or WorkplaceXT Site Preferences 

SYMPTOM
 

 * The initial save of the WorkPlace Site Preferences appears to be successful but Preferences revert back to previous values in about twenty minutes.
   
   
 * Second attempt to change and save Workplace Site Preferences produces the following error:
   
   com.filenet.api.exception.EngineRuntimeException;Requested item not found...
   
   
 * After twenty or so minutes, the WorkPlace Site Preferences is accessible and reset to original values.
   
   
 * In FileNet Enterprise Manager (FEM), under the Object Store/Root Folder/Preferences, multiple instances of Site Preferences for Workplace exist in Containment/Folder Name appended with a number. For example: Site Preferences for Workplace(33) 
   
   
 * Each attempt to change the Site Preferences results in a new Site Preferences for Workplace entry in FEM under ObjectStore/Root Folder/Preferences appended with an (number) increment by 1.


CAUSE
An orphaned Dynamic Referential Containment Relationship for "Site Preferences for Workplace". When CE attempts to update the site preferences file, it cannot resolve the object it points to and generates a new Site Preferences for Workplace entry, appending a sequential number. After twenty minutes, CE reloads the site preferences, cannot find a valid object and loads the default values.

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
 

Confirm a new Site Preferences for Workplace entry in Filenet Enterprise Manager (FEM) is created in 'Root Folder/Preferences' whenever the Site Preferences are changed and saved in Workplace.

Check to see if an orphaned Dynamic Referential Containment Relationship exists by doing the following:



 1. In FileNet Enterprise Manager (FEM), do a search with the following values:
    
    Select From Table = Dynamic Referential Containment Relationship
    Criteria: Column = "Containment Name", Condition = "Like", Value="Site Preferences for Workplace"
    
    
 2. Review the properties of the item returned who's containment name = "Site Preferences for Workplace".
    
    
 3. An orphaned Dynamic Referential Containment Relationship exists if the Head is not a valid object.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 

Delete the orphaned Dynamic Referential Containment Relationship for "Site Preferences for Workplace". Once deleted, changes to the Workplace Site Preferences will be properly saved. 

Steps to delete: 

 

 1. In FileNet Enterprise Manager (FEM), do a search with the following values:
    
    Select From Table = Dynamic Referential Containment Relationship
    Criteria: Column = "Containment Name", Condition = "Like", Value="Site Preferences for Workplace"
    
    
 2. Review the properties of the item returned who's containment name = "Site Preferences for
    Workplace" and confirm it is an orphaned Dynamic Referential Containment Relationship object.
    
    
 3. Delete the orphaned Dynamic Referential Containment Relationship object.
    
    
 4. Optional. Delete the extra Site Preferences for Workplace(num) entries in FEM/Object Store/Root Folder/Preferences folder.