Title: IBM MustGather: ITM agent 6.2.x for Maximo 7.x environment - United States

Text:
ITM agent; Maximo; MosWos agent; TEPS; TPAEPERFORMANCE ; TEMS; tmaitm6; event ID; mustgather TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This technote describes what information you need to begin troubleshooting a ITM Maximo agent issue. Gathering this information before calling IBM support will help you with the troubleshooting process and save time analyzing the data. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Please provide the following information regarding the Infrastructure:
1) What is the used OS platform?
N.B!:The OS and release version of the host i.e. on Windows: run "winver", on Unixes: run "uname -a"
2) What is the used hostname?
3a)What are the used ITM components installed on the TEPS system. 
3b)If this is Windows, provide "kincinfo -d" to show the ITM components and application support levels 
4a)What are the OS platform, hostname, and ITM components installed on the HUB TEMS (and Remote TEMS if using them). 
4b)If the client is running on Windows OS, provide "kincinfo -d 
5a)What are the OS platform, hostname, and ITM components installed on the agent system. 
5b)If the agent system is on Windows OS, provide "kincinfo -d". 
6) From the agent system, please provide the output of running "pdcollect" tool to gather contents of tmaitm6\logs directory.
N.B!: usually this can be found under..C:\IBM\ITM\tmaitm6 
7) Please provide the OS application and system event logs exported as .evt files, and provide timezone setting for the system . 

Support does need all this information and also to review the OS System Event Log so support can look for messages from SCM (Service Control Manager) which is part of the Windows OS. 
Support then will need to see what event ID is being reported when the services fails to bring data over to understand if it is an issue with where the 
service is not starting due to a timeout or if there is some other error. 

Examples of Event ID's can be as follows:

Event ID 7000 / 7009 / 7011 would indicate a timeout. 
Event ID 7031 would indicate a crash of the service on startup etc.

8) Please provide the output of "sc query" from the DOS command line 
9) Please check if there is and then send in the moswos_agent log file
10)Please provide the amount and versions of the used JVM's




Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Systems and Asset Management Tivoli Change and Configuration Management Database AIX, Windows, Solaris, HP-UX, Windows 2003 server 7.1, 7.1.1, 7.1.2, 7.2, 7.2.1 All Editions Systems and Asset Management Tivoli Service Request Manager AIX, Solaris, Windows 2003 server 7.1, 7.1.2, 7.2, 7.2.1 All Editions Systems and Asset Management Tivoli Asset Management for IT AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, Windows 6.2, 6.2.1, 7.1, 7.1.1, 7.1.2, 7.2, 7.2.1 All Editions Systems and Asset Management Control Desk AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, Windows 7.5 
PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 IBM Tivoli Monitoring V6.2 Maximo Agent