Title: IBM Installation instructions to apply WebSphere Cast Iron fix packs for 6.1.x - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT README

ABSTRACT
 Steps to apply fix packs for various form factors of WebSphere Cast Iron Cloud Integration 

CONTENT
For Appliance Firmware (.scrypt2 or .vcrypt2 file): 

Use the Web Management Console (WMC) to upload firmware releases. This upgrade process does not destroy user data.

Note: 
When upgrading, any 3rd party connector libraries used are preserved, so you do not need to reinstall the libraries after you upgrade.


 1. Download the Fix pack from Fix Central and copy to a location where you can access it. 
 2. Using the WMC, log in to the Integration Appliance that you want to upgrade. 
 3. Select System -> Upgrade. The Upgrade page displays. 
 4. Click the Upgrade Operating System link. The Upgrade Wizard launches. 
 5. Click Browse to locate the upgrade file. 
 6. Click Upgrade. The Integration Appliance uploads the upgrade file and starts the upgrade process. When the upgrade is complete, the Integration Appliance automatically reboots. 
 7. When the reboot is complete, the WMC Login page displays. If the page does not display, click the browser refresh button. 
    
    

If you wish to upgrade using the Command Line Interface (CLI) rather than WMC, refer to Upgrading firmware when WMC is not started. [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21469055] 

For Virtual Appliance VMWare Image (.ova file): 
Installation of the .ova file will result in a new installation of the WebSphere Cast Iron Hypervisor Edition at the 6.1.0.1 level. Note that this is not an upgrade and no data will be maintained. In order to install a new image, refer to the Installation Guide shipped with your original product. 

For Virtual Appliance Xen Image (.tar file): 
Installation of the .tar file will result in a new installation of the WebSphere Cast Iron Hypervisor Edition at the 6.1.0.1 level. Note that this is not an upgrade and no data will be maintained. In order to install a new image, refer to the Installation Guide shipped with your original product. 

For WebSphere Cast Iron Studio: 
In order to install WebSphere Cast Iron Studio 6.1.0.1, you should first un-install the existing version. Then launch a fresh installation by executing the file downloaded from Fix Central.