Title: IBM Work Order Flow Control in Release 7.1 - United States

Text:
New Feature; flow control; TPAEWORK TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Is Flow Control a new feature in Maximo? 

ANSWER

Flow control is a set of business rules built into the work management applications that allow status changes to be processed automatically in a work hierarchy – from parents to children, between siblings, and from children to parents. The primary objective of flow control is to detect the appropriate time to start a record so that the combination of its status and ownership place it in the right person’s work view. A significant feature of flow control is the ability to run a task-specific action (group) along with the status change that starts it.
Actions can change statuses, set data values, run custom Java classes, and process certain ‘application actions’ such as a workflow initiation.

Note: Work process flow must be set up at the header level in order to set it up on individual tasks. You cannot set up work process flow for a task that does not have it set at the header level. Setting it up at the header level will apply it to any newly entered tasks beneath.


Below is an example of a work order flow when generated from a PM Record;


Note: This can be set in the Work Order Tracking, Changes, Releases and Job Plan application

Open Plans > Job Plans Application and Insert a Job Plan
Description: Job Plan with Precedence relationships 
Flow control Checked (make sure Flow control on Job Plan is checked)

Task 10: SEQUENCE = 1 Duration 2
No predecessor
Flow control <checked>

Task 20 SEQUENCE = 2 Duration 4
Predecessor = Task 10
Flow control <checked>

Task 30 SEQUENCE = 2 Duration 6
Predecessor = Task 10
Flow control <checked>

Task 40 SEQUENCE = 3 Duration 6
Predecessor = Task30
Flow control <checked>

SAVE and change status to Active

Open Assets Application and insert new asset and change status to Operating.

Go to Organization and Select a Organization.
From Action Menu select work Type.

Enter a Work Type.

Work Order Class= "WORKORDER"
Work Type= “PM”
Type="None"

Process Flow Start status “In progress”.
Process Flow Finish status “ Complete”. 

NOTE: Status WAPPR can also be used.

Click OK.

Open Preventive Maintenance > Preventive Maintenance. 

Insert a PM and enter the Asset you created above and also the Job Plan you created above .

Frequency on the Time Based Frequency Tab = 1 Day.
Next Due Date = Today’s Date and Save.

Change the PM Status to “Active”.

From Action Menu Generate Work Order.

Search Work Order Application on Work Order Generated above.

You should have one Parent WO and four Task WO for each task above.

Parent Work Order. 

Task Work order for task 10 
Task Work order for task 20
Task Work order for task 30 
Task Work order for task 40 

Note: Notice that the task work orders have the flow controlled value checked. This is the cross over field from Job Plan.

And make sure to uncheck “Inherit Status Changes” flag on parent level as well as each task level. In order to user flow control, inherit changes flag should be unchecked. 

In the Parent Work order 
Go to Plans Tab

Insert a task work order on the parent work order

Task 50 SEQUENCE = 3 Duration 15 
Predecessor = Task 40

Un check the “Flow control” and Save

Note: Un checking of “Flow Control Flag” would enable the work order not to follow force sequence

Open Parent Work order 
Go to Plans Tab

Insert another Task on the Parent work order

Task 60 SEQUENCE = 3 Duration 15 
Predecessor = Task 40

Again Check the “Flow control” and Save

Make sure the parent work order has “Inherit Status Change” in the Work order tab “Unchecked”

Make sure all task from task 10 – task 60 has “Inherit Status Change” unchecked

Change Parent Work Order to Status “In Progress”
Parent Work Order and Task work order Task 10 will be in status In Progress 

Go to Task Work order of Task 20
From action menu try to change status to “Complete” 

Status “Complete” is not one of the status option available for the work order of Task 20 because force sequence is in place and user cannot change the status until task 10 (predecessor) task is changed to complete 

Go to Task Work order of Task 10
From action menu try to change status to “Complete” 

Task 20 and task 30 would now change to “In Progress” status

Go to Task Work order of Task 20
From action menu try to change status to “Complete” 

Go to Task Work order of Task 50
From action menu try to change status to “Complete” 

User is able to change status to complete because task work order 50 does not follow force sequence

Go to Task Work order of Task 60
From action menu try to change status to “Complete” 

Note: Although predecessor Task 50 does not follow force sequence, task 40 follows force sequence and task 60 also follows force sequence. Until task 40 is changed to “complete” user cannot change task 60


 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Systems and Asset Management Maximo Asset Management Essentials All