Title: IBM Opening a module results in DXL interaction message "could not open include file" - United States

Text:
DOORS; module; column; DXl; include file; view; default; could not open TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 IBM Rational DOORS Report window pops up many times while opening a module and results in error message "could not open include file". 

SYMPTOM
The error being generated is in a DXL Interaction Window. 

In the DXL Output section, the message reads:

"-E- DSL: Line:5> could not open include file (\Local path\...\Layout\legacy_main.dxl) 
No such file or directory) -I-DXL:all done with 1 error and 0 warnings"

CAUSE
Module view contains a column with DXL that references a nonexistent file.



DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Archived data from another database is restored in DOORS. 

Opening the module generates numerous DXL error messages and eventually the module opens. 
One column has "error in DXL" for all objects in the module.

Set the standard view display when the module opens:


 1.  With the module open, Click View > manage Views ... ( In the Views window, saved views are listed on the left) 
 2.  Select the view listed as the module default 
 3. On the general tab to the right, uncheck the box Default For module 
 4. Click OK to close the views window 
 5. Close the module
    

Open the module. 
RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
When a view contains DXL that causes error messages to be displayed, either update the column DXL to use the correct path to any referenced files 
or remove the DXL column and save the view. 


To modify a DXL column: 


 1. Right click the column > select Properties ... to load the Edit column window 
 2. With layout DXL selected, click the Browse button to the right 
 3. In the Browse DXL window, click the Current button at the bottom ( this loads the EDIT layout DXL window with the script displayed in the top sections) 
 4. Update the path for any references to other include or dxl files run by the script 
 5. Click the Check button at the bottom to ensure there are no errors 
 6. Click OK to close the DXL editor window 
 7. Click OK to close the Edit column window 
 8. Save the view to retain the column changes  *  Click View > Save As... 
     * Click OK to overwrite the existing view or create a new view set as the module default 
     * Click OK to close the views window 
     * If you are resetting the default view with a new or updated view click yes 
       when prompted to set as the default 
     * Click confirm to overwrite the existing view