Title: IBM Unable to Access Cognos 8 portal pages with Anonymous set to True, StoreID is invalid - United States

Text:
reset security TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Unable to Access Cognos 8 portal pages with Anonymous set to True. 

When Allow Anonymous access is set back to True in Cognos Configuration for somereason, an error appears after a succesful Anonymous login to Cognos Connection. 

The login to Cognos 8 is happening, as the Welcome Page does show up. 

Symptoms : 

1. The Cognos 8 Welcome page displays, View or Manage Cognos Content causes the error, but all Studios work. 

2. Immediate error is received, due to having changed the preferences to not show the Welcome Page. 

SYMPTOM
Audit.dispatcher.caf Request Failure SecureErrorId: 2006-07-21-14:12:00.652-#1
Original Error: CM-REQ-4158 The search path "storeID("")" is invalid.

CAUSE
Permission for the Anonymous user have been changed in the portal in such a manner that access can no longer access be given.

Reverting to Anonymous access from a secured Cognos 8 against a namespace can cause this issue.

ENVIRONMENT
Active Directory Server, Windows environment

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Recreate the Content Store database.

Steps:  1. Set up secured access again, by setting Anonymous to False in Cognos Configuration, and restart the services.
 2. Login as Administrator, and do a Full Content Store Export, followed by a shutdown of Services.
 3. Remove the Content Store from the Database, and then open Cognos Configuration and delete the Content Store entry under Content Management.
 4. Re-add the Content Store Entry, ensuring that the Database connection values are correct. Test the login by right clicking Test on the content store.
 5. Change Anonymous to True, and then Start Cognos from Cognos Configuration. All the tables will be re-created in the database for the content store.
 6. Access Cognos 8, either as Anonymous or Administrator and restore the Full Content Store Deployment.



HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1025225