Title: IBM Steps for recreating the Plug-In cache and the Workspace - United States

Text:
-clean; rsa; rsm; workspace; project; corruption; plugin; cache; RPB; RSA; RSM; RSD; RAD; 1238679 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This technote describes steps for resolving a problem caused by the plug-in cache due to project or workspace corruption. 

SYMPTOM
During the course of using IBM Rational Software Development Platform tools, such as IBM Rational Software Architect, the development environment plug-in cache, the workspace and/or project can become corrupted resulting in unexpected behavior and application instability.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
To recreate the Plug-In Cache and Workspace 

Ideally you will have a backup of your preferences and also of your project set that could be used for a roll-back in case of trouble. 

 1. Create a copy of the Rational Software Architect shortcut and append -clean to the command line.  1. Go to Start > Programs > IBM Rational 
     2. Right-click Rational Software Development Platform then select Copy 
     3. Right-click a blank area of your desktop and select Paste Shortcut 
     4. Right-click the shortcut and select Properties 
     5. Append -clean after the double quotation in the Target field
        For version 6:
        Example: "C:\Program Files\IBM\Rational\SDP\6.0\rationalsdp.exe" -clean
        
        For version 7.x
        Example: "C:\Program Files\IBM\SDP\eclipse.exe" -clean -product<product package> 
     6. Find Additional information for running -clean in the on-line help or in technote 1212752 [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21212752]
    
    
 2. Launch Rational Software Architect using the shortcut created in step 1. When prompted to select a workspace, create a new one. This can take some time to complete because the Plug-In cache is rebuilt and the new workspace is created. Note that you should only need to execute step 2 once. Subsequent launches can be performed with out the -clean switch. 
 3. Exit Rational Software Architect. 
 4. Launch Rational Software Architect and either...  1. Select your original workspace. If this launches and works without error, then the problem appears to be located in the plug-in cache and you can delete the workspace created previously in step 2.
        
        OR 
     2. If you receive errors when attempting to use Rational Software Architect in your previous workspace, restart selecting your new workspace created in step 2 above.
    
    
 5. In the new workspace, import your preferences, if available. If not, reconfigure your environment manually.  * To import your preferences 
       For version 6: go to Window > Preferences... and click the Import... button.
       For version 7: go to File > Import... expand General and select Preferences. Click Next and follow the prompts
    
    
 6. In the new workspace, import your Project Set if available. If not, import your projects individually.
    To import your Project Set go to File > Import... and select Import Team Project Set.
    Note: This is a .psf file.
    
    To import your projects individually go to File > Import... and select Import Existing Project.
    
    Note: Prior to importing your projects, you might want to disable the autobuild feature by going to Project Menu and clearing the check box for Build Automatically.




RELATED INFORMATION
#1212752 -clean option in Rational Application Developer [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21212752]






Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Software Modeler General Software Development Rational Application Developer for WebSphere Software General Software Development Rational Systems Developer General Software Development Rational Software Architect for WebSphere Software General Information Linux, Windows 7.5, 7.5.1, 7.5.2 Software Development Rational Software Architect Standard Edition General Information Linux, Windows 7.5, 7.5.1, 7.5.2