Title: IBM DQM ONLY: BMT-MD-0057 UNABLE TO REMOVE THE SELECTED OBJECTS - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Framework Manager returns an error when modifying model objects: DQM only: BMT-MD-0057 Unable to remove the selected objects.

These errors are seen in newly created models as well as models upgraded from 10.1.1 when modifying query subjects

When working in compatible mode no error is returned and model can be maintained.

The problem is mainly seen when a query subject is partially imported into Framework Manager, e.g. sub-set of table columns. 

CAUSE
The imported query subject comprise only a subset of data items available on the underlying database table/view.

ENVIRONMENT
Sample environment:
Windows 2008 R2 server Standard (64-bit) 

IBM Cognos BI 10.2 (64-bit) - single server
MS-SQL Server 2008

Problems seen in these areas:
(A) - database query subject with a sub set of columns
(B) - modifying an existing query subject
(C) - maintaining an upgraded 10.1.1 model


DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Sample testcase: 

Create a new Framework Manager project.
Import a table or view from your database BUT select only 2 or 3 items (a subset) from the table/view.
Save the model.
Test your query subject.
Next highlight an item to delete/ remove it from your query.
=> the BMT-MD-0057 error will occur.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
You cannot explicitly remove a data source query item imported from a database that is the child of a data source query subject.

Data source query items are defined by the SQL statement of their parent query subject. To remove a data source query item you must edit the query subject and change the SQL statement to reflect which columns should be included as query items in the query subject.

In contrast, model query subjects and their model query items (i.e. calculated query item of a database query subject or a model query subject) are defined by their own expressions. Removing or adding a model query item is a local action (within the model), and the query service does not need to consult the underlying database.