Title: IBM Does ODWEK have "Copy Document Pages to file" function like CMOD Windows Client? - United States

Text:
API usage TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Does IBM Content Manager OnDemand (CMOD) Web Enablement Kit (ODWEK) have "Copy Document Pages to file" function like CMOD Windows Client? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
ODWEK does not offer directly the functionality you are looking for mainly because we are an API and the functionality you are looking for is more of a GUI function.

However, we do offer some options to sending your document output to a file for example using method ODHit.retrieve() which uses the ODConstant.NATIVE, or PLUGIN, or ODConstant.PDF. If you want to retrieve large documents by segment you can use the ODHit.retrieveSegment() method.

We also offer the following additional APIs:

ODHit.getResources()/ODHit.getResources(filename)
Retrieve the AFP resources for the current hit which is either returned to the caller in a ByteArray or written out to the file specified.

ODHit.getDocument()
Retrieve the document for this ODHit. The document will be retrieved uncompressed and in its native format. Conversion is not provided. See ODServer/ODHit.retrieve() if you require conversion processing. If the current ODHit is for a large object document, only the first segment is returned. See ODHit.getDocument(filename,allsegs) or ODHit.retrieveSegment() for large document handling.

ODHit.getDocument(String Filename, Bool allsegs)
Retrieve the document for this ODHit. The document will be retrieved uncompressed and in its native format. Conversion is not provided. See ODServer/ODHit.retrieve() if you require conversion processing. If allsegs = true, then all segments of a large object document will be written to the file specified. If allsegs = false, then only the first segment will be retrieved and written to file.

You might also want to take a look at IBM Content Navigator which offers similar functionality.

RELATED INFORMATION
 A simplified Chinese translation is available [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21971648]