Title: IBM Security certificate warning accessing TIP URL via IE browser - United States

Text:
security certificate; invalid certificate; certificate warning; TIP URL TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Accessing TIP URL via Internet Explorer (IE) browser will indicate the security certificate issued by WebGUI/TIP server has problem. 

SYMPTOM
The following warning will be encountered on the browser session 

There is a problem with this website's security certificate. 

The security certificate presented by this website was not issued by a trusted certificate authority. 

The security certificate presented by this website was issued for a different website's address. 

Security certificate problems may indicate an attempt to fool you or intercept any data you send to the server. 

We recommend that you close this webpage and do not continue to this website. 

- Click here to close this webpage. 

- Continue to this website (not recommended). 

 

a. Choosing the option to close the webpage will terminate the browser session. 

b. Choosing to continue will bring the user to the TIP login page but with the "Certificate Error" warning still indicated on IE's URL box.


CAUSE
The default certificate issued by the WebGUI/TIP server is not placed in the trusted root certification authorities store on the IE browser.



ENVIRONMENT
WebGUI clients accessing TIP URL via Internet Explorer browser



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The warning does not indicate a problem with the default security certificate issued from the WebGUI. 

It is a default self-signed security certificate which is valid and included as part of the installation and can be accepted. 

 

There are few options to address this security certificate warning on the IE browser. 

 

a. Choosing "Continue to this website (not recommended)" when the warning is prompted. 

i) This option will allow user to arrive on TIP login page and proceed with logging in with their credentials. 

ii) The browser's URL link for the duration of the session will be highlighted with pinkish background and red crossed shield indicator with "Certificate Error" text. 

iii) The next subsequent access to the TIP URL after users restart the browser will no longer indicate there is a problem with the security certificate but the behaviour stated in point ii) remains. 

iv) Clearing the IE browser's history will bring back the security certificate warning the next time user access the TIP URL again. 

 

b. Import the default security certificate issued by the WebGUI/TIP server into the IE browser's trusted root certification authorities store. 

i) Choose to proceed as indicated in option a) and click on the "Certificate Error" indicator on the browser. 

ii) Click on "View certificates" on the certificate invalid window. 

iii) On the certificate window's "General" tab, click "Install Certificate" 

iv) On the certificate import wizard window, click "Next" 

v) On the certificate store section, choose the "Place all certificates in the following store" option 

vi) Click "Browse" and select "Trusted Root Certification Authorities" in the selection certificate store window and click "OK" 

vii) Click "Next" and "Finish" to close the certificate import wizard window. 

viii) A security warning window will pop up with the certificate details stated and prompting confirmation to proceed with the installation of this default WebGUI/TIP security certificate as part of a trusted certification authority. Click "Yes" 

viiii) On the browser's Tools > Internet Options > Content tab > Certificates > Trusted Root Certification Authorities tab, browse for the security certificate imported bearing the WebGUI server's hostname to confirm it is now stored on IE's trusted certificate store. 

x) Restart the IE browser and access the TIP URL again. 

 

c. Install a self-signed or CA-signed certificate. 

i) Follow the instructions from the IBM Information Center link to in the Related Information section below, to replace the existing default security certificate with one which is self-signed or CA-signed on the WebGUI/TIP server. (See Replacing the default SSL certificate for connections to Web GUI clients)



ii) Repeat the steps from option b) for the replaced self-signed or CA-signed certificate to import it as part of the WebGUI client's IE browser trusted certificate store.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Replacing the default SSL certificate for connections t [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSSHTQ_7.3.1/com.ibm.netcool_OMNIbus.doc_7.3.1/webtop/wip/task/web_con_clientsslcertreplace.html]


 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 webgui