Title: IBM Opening workbench results in "License Cannot Be Found" - United States

Text:
Licensing; Websphere Workbench; License Cannot Be Found; RAD; Rational Software Architect for Webspere TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When you open the IBM Rational Software Architect for WebSphere version 7.5.0 workbench on the same computer with IBM Rational Software Architect v7.0.0 installed, you see error "License Cannot Be Found". 

SYMPTOM
The full error message is as follows:


Error: License Cannot Be Found
The "Rational Software Architect for Websphere Software" license key cannot be found. 
Click Manage Licenses to apply a license or uninstall the product. If you click Exit Workbench, you can resolve this issue later via the Installation Manager or by restarting the product and clicking Manage Licenses.



At the bottom of in this error message window, you can click on buttons for: 
Manage Licenses and Exit Workbench 


If you click Manage Licenses, the Manage Licenses window opens and shows the following.



 * The version 7.5 License Type is "Floating"
   
   
 * License Status as "No license key available"
   
   


At the bottom of the Manage Licenses window, you can click on buttons for: Apply License, Uninstall, Refresh License Status, or Exit Workbench. When you click Apply License, the Manage Licenses window shows all the installed product versions. 



 * Rational Software Architect for WebSphere Software 7.5 shows License Type "Floating".
   
   
 * Rational Software Architect 7 shows License Type "Permanent".
   


When you click on Rational Software Architect for WebSphere Software 7.5, you can select the radio buttons Import product Activation Kit or Configure Floating license Support. 

Selecting Importing product Activation Kit seems to be successful. However, in the end the Manage Licenses window still shows Rational Software Architect for WebSphere Software 7.5, License Type "Floating" and License Status "No license key available". 
CAUSE
The cause is an erroneous Floating license support configuration in the IBM Installation Manager.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Consider the following steps to deactivate floating license enforcement.



 

 1.  Open the IBM Rational Installation Manager.
     
     
 2.  Click Manage Licenses.
     
     
 3.  Highlight Rational Software Architect for WebSphere Software 7.5.
     
     
 4.  Select the radio button Configure Floating license support.
     
     
 5.  Click Next.
     
     
 6.  Accept the terms in the license agreements.
     
     
 7.  Click Next.
     
     
 8.  Select the radio button Disable floating license enforcement.
     
     
 9.  Click Finish.
     
     A message will appear explaining the license settings were updated successfully. 
     
     
 10. Click Finish.



Now you can use the product with the product activation kit that you imported previously. RELATED INFORMATION
#Licensing issues for applications created in Applicatio [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21271366]
License registration fails in Rational Application Deve [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21225545]


 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Software Architect Licensing Windows 7.0