Title: IBM Workflow and time estimation for BPM V7.5.1.2 fix pack installation for IBM Business Process Manager (BPM) - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This document provides the workflow and time estimation for the installation of V7.5.1 Fix Pack 2 (V7.5.1.2) for IBM Business Process Manager (BPM). 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The following steps describe the workflow for installing V7.5.1 Fix Pack 2 (V7.5.1.2) for the IBM Business Process Manager products, with an estimation of the time it will take to complete each step.



 1. Update IBM Installation Manager to 1.5.2 or later on each of your BPM installations, including the deployment manager and each node. You can do this in parallel.
    Approximate time: 30 seconds per Installation Manager
    
    
 2. Back up each of your profile configurations, including the deployment manager and each node. You can do this in parallel.
    Approximate time: 30 seconds per profile



For a stand-alone environment: 

 1. Stop the source stand-alone server.
    
    
 2. Install the BPM V7.5.1.2 fix pack using Installation Manager on the server host. This will also upgrade the profile.
    Approximate time: 30 minutes
    
    
 3. Run the upgrade_7x command to do the database upgrade.
    Approximate time: 4 minutes
    
    

Total estimated time: 35 minutes (assuming 1 minute for the Installation Manager upgrade and configuration backup) 


For a network deployment environment: 

 1. Stop the source environment to be upgraded, including servers, nodes, and deployment manager. This is the start of the upgrade window.
    
    
 2. Install the BPM V7.5.1.2 fix pack using Installation Manager on the deployment manager host. This also upgrades the deployment manager profile and any local custom nodes. Start the deployment manager profile after the upgrade.
    Approximate time: 30 minutes
    
    
 3. Upgrade the remote nodes, if any, to avoid concurrent upgrade by multiple nodes to the same deployment manager. Allow some time (for example, 10 minutes) between each node upgrade, so that the remote node upgrades will happen at different times.
    Approximate time: 30 minutes
    
    
 4. Stop the deployment manager.
    
    
 5. Upgrade each cluster on the deployment manager host.
    Approximate time: 4 minutes
    
    
 6. Run the upgrade_7x command to do the database upgrade.
    Approximate time: 4 minutes



Total estimated time: 5 + (30 + (20 + 10* n)) + 8 
(assuming 5 minutes for the Installation Manager upgrade and configuration backup. n is the number of remote nodes, great than 0) 

Note: The estimated time in this example is for BPM Standard using 3 clusters on a Linux platform. The time will be longer if you are upgrading BPM Advanced or if you are on a Windows platform.  



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Integration IBM Business Process Manager Express Installation / Configuration Linux, Windows 7.5.1.2 Business Integration IBM Business Process Manager Standard Installation / Configuration AIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows 7.5.1.2 
PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 BPM