Title: IBM Sample:  Joining three queries together - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This report sample demonstrates taking three queries, and joining them using the Cognos 8 query join object. 

SYMPTOM
Unable to insert this data item here because the query context 'query4' is not the same as the data item's query 'query5'

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Cognos 8 provides some very powerful query tools to create complex datasets, but they need to be used carefully to avoid confusing Report Studio. Ideally, you should be doing most of your work in the Query Browser, and only go to the Report Page once you've created the final query object that contains the full dataset you want to work with.

The attached report spec contains the results of the following steps.

Steps:This report uses three queries that each calculate the top ten retailers for three different measures (profit, revenue and quantity). We start with a blank report and then we go into the Query Browser (hold the mouse of the query explorer icon, and then click on Queries. Create three seperate queries that generate the top 10 lists for each measure.

Now we need to do our joins. We can only join two queries at a time, so we need to drag two join objects to the query page. On the first join, drag the two of our three queries into the two boxes. Now double-click on the join object itself. In this case, we want to join based on the ranking, so we click the new link button, and select the rank item on both sides of the join. Then we want to set the cardinality to 1..1 = 1..1. 

Once we've done that, we can click Okay. Now we need to double click on the query beside that join, and select the data items we want. We can see both of the queries that we joined in the insertable objects, and we will want to grab most of the data from both. Ranked, however, is going to be the same on both sides, so we only need to take one of them. Report Studio will automatically rename the duplicate Retailer Name, but we want to rename them both in the data-items section, to make the query more readable.

Having done that, we now repeat this process for the second join, using the third query and our first joined query.

Finally, we can go to the report page, and drag our final join query onto the page. This will automatically create the list report, which we can then modify as needed.

1019516_2.zip [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21339623&aid=2] - 1019516_2.zip [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21339623&aid=1]

Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos ReportNet ReportNet 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1019516