Title: IBM® InfoSphere® Big Match for Hadoop v11.5 (PID 5725-E59) Supporting Programs and Platform Support FAQ - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT DOCUMENTATION

ABSTRACT
 The following list includes frequently asked questions (FAQ) about InfoSphere Big Match for Hadoop v11.5 Supporting Programs and Platform Support to help you troubleshoot potential problems and enhance how you use the product. 

CONTENT
Frequently asked questions (FAQ) and answers 




1. What is a Supporting Program?




The definitive and authoritative description of “Supporting Programs” is in the License Information (LI) document and copied here (the most important elements are shown here in bold; note “Program” or “Principal Program” means InfoSphere Big Match for Hadoop v11.5):

“The Program is licensed as a multi-product package and includes the Supporting Programs identified below. Licensee is authorized to install and use such Supporting Programs only to support Licensee's use of the Principal Program under this Agreement and within the limits of the Proofs of Entitlement for the Program (unless broader rights are provided elsewhere in this License Information document). The phrase "to support Licensee's use" would include only those uses that are necessary or otherwise directly related to a licensed use of the Principal Program or another Supporting Program. The Supporting Programs may not be used for any other purpose. Licensee is not authorized to transfer or remarket the Supporting Programs separate from the Principal Program. A Supporting Program may be accompanied by license terms, and those terms, if any, apply to Licensee's use of that Supporting Program. In the event of conflict, the terms in this License Information document supersede the Supporting Program's terms. When Licensee's right to use the Program expires or terminates, Licensee must discontinue use, destroy or promptly return all copies of the Supporting Programs to the party from whom Licensee acquired the Program. If Licensee downloaded the Supporting Programs, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee acquired the Program. If Licensee wishes to license the Supporting Programs for any use beyond the limits set forth above, please contact an IBM Sales Representative or the party from whom Licensee acquired the Program to obtain the appropriate license.”




2. So, can I expect that for all Big Match projects I will have everything I need through the Supporting Programs?




No, although we believe that the Supporting Programs are of great value to most customers, there will often be requirements specific to the customer’s environment or deployment pattern that will not be addressed by the Supporting Programs. This may mean that you may need other IBM or 3P software or different licensing of a program that is part of the Supporting Programs bundle.




3. Where are the Supporting Programs made available?



The Supporting Programs, like the main InfoSphere Big Match software, can be downloaded from Passport advantage. Here is a link that provides the detail on downloading: 

http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg24041088 [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg24038472]




4. What value do the supporting programs deliver?




Features and functionality described below are standard and available out-of-the-box for InfoSphere Big Match v11.5 with no additional licensing fees.


 * IBM InfoSphere Master Data Management (MDM) Standard Edition – Provides user the alternative ability to configure Big Match with MDM Workbench and perform weight generation with Virtual MDM engine. MDM Standard Edition is not required to run Big Match. 
 * IBM Rational® Application Developer for WebSphere® Software -- Provides the application development foundation for InfoSphere MDM. On top of RAD the InfoSphere MDM Eclipse-based Workbenches provide the technical users (administrators and developers) the ability to configure and customize (create extensions) the MDM deployment. This software is not required if you do not wish to use MDM Standard Edition to configure Big Match.

 * IBM DB2® Enterprise Server Edition -- Provides the core repository for master data and tables that are used for internal management of the master data. As a supporting program this can be used for "distributed" deployments; it does not support deployment of the database on the mainframe. For the latter the customer will have to acquire DB2 for z/OS licensing. This software is not required if you do not wish to use MDM Standard Edition to configure Big Match.

 * IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment -- Provides the run-time environment that the InfoSphere MDM application relies on for core application services. InfoSphere MDM leverages many capabilities in WAS, which reduces the development effort in the application and also create consistency with other WAS-deployed applications. This makes it easier for MDM customers to deploy the application and will allow for existing skill sets to be leveraged in environments where WAS is the application server of choice. This software is not required if you do not wish to use MDM Standard Edition to configure Big Match.

 * IBM WebSphere Application Server Base – WAS Base is provided for the InfoSphere MDM Development environment (MDM Workbench). This software is not required if you do not wish to use MDM Standard Edition to configure Big Match. 

 * IBM WebSphere Application Server Liberty Core – The Big Match Console is deployed on WAS Liberty. WAS Liberty is packaged inside the Big Match product. It is configured automatically during the Big Match install.

 * IBM Installation Manager & IBM Packaging Utility for Rational Software Development Platform – This component is used by the InfoSphere MDM Installation Process only. It is not available for use by the customer. This software is not required if you do not wish to install MDM Standard Edition.



5. Where can I find the InfoSphere Big Match LIs?



Using the following link you can find all InfoSphere MDM and InfoSphere Big Match License Information (LI) documents (for various versions): http://www-03.ibm.com/software/sla/sladb.nsf/searchlis/?searchview&searchorder=4&searchmax=0&query=%285725-E59%29 [http://www-03.ibm.com/software/sla/sladb.nsf/searchlis/?searchview&searchorder=4&searchmax=0&query=%285725-E59%29]




6. Are there restrictions on any of the supporting programs? 



Yes, specific restrictions are applicable to some Supporting Programs. These restrictions are described in the LI in the sections “Supporting Program Details” and, if applicable, “Additional Supporting Program Restrictions”.

Some extracts from Big Match LI copied here for reference only (includes some reformatting):

Supporting Program Details 

 * 
   IBM DB2
   - Use Limitations: Use by Principal Program
   
 *  
 * "Use by Principal Program" means that neither Licensee nor any application, program, or device external to the Principal Program is authorized to directly use or access the services of the Supporting Program in any way. The Supporting Program is provided exclusively for use by the Principal Program. Licensee may access the Supporting Program only to perform administrative functions, such as backup, recovery, and authorized configuration but may not directly use the Supporting Program for any productive use. 
   
   
   
 * 
 * 
 *  
 * Licensee is only permitted to use IBM Rational Application Developer for WebSphere Software for hosting the Master Data Management Workbench and customizing runtime instances of the Program. 
   
   
   

7. What about the Supporting Program's own License Information? Is that applicable too? 

Yes, the use is subject to the terms that are in the InfoSphere Big Match LI, but also to the terms that are in the LI for the supporting program. Thus you should review those to ensure that your use case is in line with this.



8. What technology platforms are supported in v11.5??


The latest information on supported platforms for InfoSphere Big Match for Hadoop v11.5 can be found via this link:
http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27035486 [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27035486]