Title: IBM Login to Rational Engineering Lifecycle Manager after upgrade fails with CRJAZ0977I - United States

Text:
RELM License TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 
Attempts to login to IBM Rational Engineering Lifecycle Manager (RELM) after an upgrade fails with CRJAZ0977I The "com.ibm.team.jazz.foundation.enterprise-v3" server license policy does not allow the "com.ibm.50.relm.login" operation. 

SYMPTOM
After an upgrade to Rational Engineering Lifecycle Manager 6.x, users attempting to login see the following error message:


Error! 
An error response was received from the Jazz Team Server. Status=400. 
Message: CRJAZ0977I The "com.ibm.team.jazz.foundation.enterprise-v3" server license policy does not allow the "com.ibm.50.relm.login" operation. 



CAUSE
This error is caused by an old 1.0 User License which is incompatible with the later versions of Rational Engineering Lifecycle Manager. The old 1.0 licenses are assigned to users instead of the valid 6.0 User License.

ENVIRONMENT
Rational Engineering Lifecycle Manager 6.x with a Floating License Server.

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Login to the Jazz Team Server Admin page (/jts/admin)






 1. Click on the 'Server' menu.
    
    
 2. Click on the 'License Key Management' link on the left hand pane.
    
    
 3. Scroll down to the 'Floating License Server' section.
    
    
 4. Review the version of the hosted 'Rational Engineering Lifecycle Manager' licenses of type 'User-Floating'.
    
    
 5. If the Version displayed is '1.0' then the Floating License Server is hosting the obsolete 1.0 licenses instead of the required 6.0 licenses.
    
    

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
1. Ensure that you have downloaded the correct Client Access Licenses (CALs) for Rational Engineering Lifecycle Manager version 6.0 from the License Key Center.



 1. Login to the Jazz Team Server admin page /jts/admin
    
    
 2. Click on the 'Server' menu.
    
    
 3. Click on the 'License Key Management' link on the left hand pane.
    
    
 4. Scroll down to the 'Floating License Server' section.
    
    
 5. Delete the old 1.0 versions of the 'Rational Engineering Lifecycle Manager' licenses of type 'User-Floating' by clicking on the red X to the right of that line. 
    
    
 6. Click Add... to add the correct 6.0 licenses.
    
    If any existing users were already assigned the obsolete 1.0 licenses, please correct the license assignments for those users before they attempt to login.  1. Click on the 'Users' menu.
        
        
     2. Select the affected user name.
        
        
     3. Correct the license assignments for Rational Engineering Lifecycle Manager User-Floating licenses on the right side of that page.
        
        Once assigned the correct 6.0 license, the users should be able to log in to Rational Engineering Lifecycle Manager as normal.