Title: IBM Can Decision tree display bar graph at each node for variable other than target? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I am running the Decision Tree procedure (TREE command) in SPSS/PASW Statistics. My target variable is a scale variable named Score. The mean of Score is printed in the Node statistics for each node of the tree. In addition to the mean of Score, I would like the node statistics to display the frequency distribution for a categorical variable, Status, as represented at that node of the tree. The tree growth would be driven by Score, but the distribution of Status would be depicted at each node along with the mean of Score. The Decision Tree procedure will not let me enter more than one target variable in a single analysis. Is there a way to have the Decision Tree procedure print node statistics for two variables? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
There is not a way to get the Decision Treea procedure to print node statistics or a bar chart for a variable other than the target variable. As noted in the question, there can be only one target variable. A feature request was filed with SPSS Development to request the capability to print node statistics for a second variable - a shadow target variable..

It would be possible to print the frequency distribution and bar chart of Status for the data subsets defined by each of the terminal nodes (the child nodes at the end of each branch of the tree). These statistics would not be present in the tree diagram. The steps are as follows:

1. In the TREE command or Decision Tree dialog, save the (terminal) Node number as a new variable. Check the box labelled "Terminal node number" in the Save dialog of the Decision Tree dialogs. If running the tree analysis from a syntax command, include the subcommand:
/SAVE NODEID
The terminal node number will be saved in the new variable NODEID.
2. After running the TREE analysis, split the file by the node number variable. Split files are defined from the Data>Split Files menu by choosing either "Compare groups" or "Organize output by groups". Paste NODEID into the "Groups based on" box and click OK. The file must be sorted by NODEID to be split by NODEID, so take the default option of sorting the file. If running from syntor commands, use the commands:
SORT CASES BY NODEID.
SPLIT FILE BY NODEID. 
3. Run the Frequencies procedure (Analyze->Descriptive Statistics) with Status as the analysis variable, to print the frequency distribution of Status for each terminal node of the tree. You could also run the GRAPH (Graphs>Legacy Dialogs) command or GGRAPH/GPL command set (Graphs>Chart Builder) to draw a simple bar chart for each of the terminal nodes.
4. Turn off the Split File status with the SPLIT FILE OFF command and by choosing "Analyze all cases, do not create groups" in the Data>Split Files dialog.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 89118