Title: IBM View in text (*.....csv) format within browser opens or saves the file as imrap.cgi - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 With a Netscape browser, when trying to view or save an Impromptu web report in ..csv format, the file opens or is saved with a .cgi extension (i.e. imrap.cgi). How do you ensure that the file opens or saves with a ..csv extension? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The solution assumes that for the view as ..csv option, you want to view this with Excel. See knowledge base document 79418 for the steps on setting MIME types on the workstation and web server. In addition, for Netscape browsers you must ensure that browser preferences are set to allow the MIME type for ..csv files. Steps:1. In the Netscape browser, select Edit, Preferences.
2. In the Category section, expand Navigator and select Applications.
3. The list of Applications will now be visible in the Description section. Scroll through the list and see if Excel File appears. If Excel File is present, proceed to the next step; if it is not in the list, skip to step 7.
4. Select Excel File from the list and click Edit.
5. Ensure that:
a. the Extension reads .csv
b. the MIME Type reads application/.csv
c. the Handled by Application reads excel.exe, or contains the full path to the excel.exe application as installed on your PC. If that path contains spaces, there should be quotation marks around the path. example: "C:\Program Files\Microsoft Office\Office\Excel.exe"
d. optional - if you want to be prompted before downloading the ..csv file type, select the checkbox Ask me before opening downloaded files of this type.
6. Select OK to close, and exit the Preferences window. Now proceed directly to step 12.

(If Excel File is not in the list of applications... )

7. Click the New Type button to add a new application type to the list.
8. In the Description of type box, enter Excel File.
9. In the File extension box, enter .csv.
10. In the MIME Type box, enter application/.csv.
11. In the Application to use box, Browse to the location of the excel application, excel.exe.

12. In the Netscape browser, try to view or save the Impromptu web report again as ..csv, and verify that the file is now opened or saved with the ..csv extension instead of .cgi.

 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 92915