Title: IBM SCA application listed by ITCAM on TEP but not present on WAS admin console - United States

Text:
CAMADAGENT CAMADALL CAMADUSE SCA Events TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

THIS DOCUMENT APPLIES ONLY TO THE FOLLOWING LANGUAGE VERSION(S):
 US English 

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 ITCAM Application Server - Applications Workspace and the Application Health Summary workspaces on the TEP show an application called "SCA." However, this application is not listed on the Enterprise Applications table in the WebSphere Admin Console. 

CAUSE
ITCAM for AD v7.1 (since Fix pack 2) monitors Service Component Architecture (SCA) applications. It does this by registering itself with WebSphere's SCA monitoring infrastructure and receives events when various SCA tasks are started/finished. Note that these events are not obtained from usual byte code instrumentation (BCI) done for J2EE artifacts like Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JCA to obtain their start/stop events. 

The SCA events generated by WebSphere do not contain the application name and has only the "SCA component" name and the "operation" name. This makes perfect sense from SCA's point of view as it deals only with components and operations as this concept is at a different level of user-level abstraction from traditional J2EE applications. Though WebSphere internally implements SCA components as EJBs and Servlets, their names are not understandable by the end user since they know their SCA application only through the components and operations that have defined. 

However, the WebSphere agent's (KYN) Application Health workspace deals with applications names to control the baselining, monitoring level, and sampling rate parameters. Since SCA events do not contain this information, a synthetic application called "SCA" is created by ITCAM's Application Health monitoring component for controlling this configuration. It also monitors the health of all SCA transactions by using this wrapper application. 

Hence, when SCA events are generated as "edge" (or outer most) request, its monitoring configuration can be controlled by setting the parameters for this synthetic application (through Take Action commands on the "SCA" application). This will be applied to all the SCA components regardless 
of the actual application they exist (Enterprise application, Business-level application, or Asset). If the SCA edge event invokes nested J2EE operations like JDBC, JCA, web services, etc. they 
will be captured when "Level 2" monitoring is turned on for this "SCA" application. 

On the other hand, if the SCA events are generated as nested calls within a traditional J2EE operation like Servlet, EJB, etc. then the application that owns these artifacts should be used to control the monitoring level. In most cases, SCA events are bound to be edge requests when they are deployed in WebSphere Process Server (classic SCA) or SCA Feature Pack on WebSphere server (open SCA). 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
If desired, the SCA application icon can be removed from the "Application Server - Applications" and "Application Health Summary" workspaces using the following procedure. Note that by doing so, the health of pure SCA transactions cannot be monitored. However, the SCA requests can still be seen in the "Request Analysis" workspace. 

To remove the SCA application name from the ITCAM TEP workspaces by disabling it via the TEP application registry workspace. To access this workspace from the Application Health Summary workspace, use one of the following ways: 

 * Within the Navigator, right-click the Application Health entry; then, from the pop-up menu, click Workspace > Application Registry. 
 * From the primary Tivoli Enterprise Portal menu, click View > Workspace > Application Registry. 


In the Application Configuration workspace do the following steps:  * In the "Application Configuration" table, select the row containing the "SCA" application. 
 * Right click and select the "Take Action" menu command. 
 * In the "Take Action" window, select the "Set_Application_Monitoring" in the Name field. 
 * In the "Edit Argument Values" panel, set the "Mon_Status" to 0 (zero), which indicates the application is to be disabled. (The App_id field should automatically be selected to ID of SCA Application). 
 * Click OK on both the panels to disable the application monitoring for SCA application. The "Monitoring Status" in the Application Configuration workspace should change to "Disabled" when it is refreshed again. Also, the icon for SCA application should disappear from the "Application Server - Applications" panel. 



PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 ITCAM for App Diagnostics