Title: IBM FAQ about software and firmware upgrades for the IBM PureData System for Transactions - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 May I apply a software or firmware update to my certified IBM PureData System for Transactions environment? 

ANSWER
Yes, you may apply updates to any of the software or firmware versions included in the IBM PureData System for Transactions. However, IBM PureData System for Transactions is a solution stack system (hardware, software and firmware) that has been extensively tested. The philosophy is that the stability of the system is the most important aspect of an IBM PureData System for Transactions. If you apply different software and/or firmware versions to any of the component products in the validated software stack, you could introduce change(s) into the configuration, which may lead to instability in the system. You need to consider your entire configuration, software and firmware stack when you apply an upgrade. If you choose to apply an upgrade, IBM recommends thorough testing in your test and quality assurance (QA) environments to ensure you do not introduce any new issues.
Some further details:
1. By design, you have the root access to the compute nodes on IBM PureData System for Transactions system. You can manually apply the software and firmware upgrades through command line.

2. In general, IBM does not recommend changing the software or firmware levels from the validated stack, unless there is a strong reason for doing so, such as a significant problem that is resolved in a newer version of the software or firmware. If you encounter a significant issue impacting your business and you are not able to work around the issue, IBM suggests you work with the IBM support teams to determine the options to resolve the issue.

3. Firmware is a part of the recommended base solution stack for the IBM PureData System for Transactions system. Firmware updates should only be considered to address known issues. If you choose to apply firmware changes, you need to ensure all pre-requisite and co-requisite changes are applied and all inter-dependencies are addressed. It is also important that you do not have mixed levels of firmware in the entire configuration. Firmware levels must be consistent across the entire cluster and changes applied to one node must be applied to all other nodes. Consult all README files and IBM support teams if needed when applying firmware updates.

4. Security requirements vary by each application, user base, and data content. All updates applied for security concerns will continue to be supported by the IBM PureData System for Transactions support team. All updates applied to address security concerns will continue to be supported by the IBM PureData System for Transactions Support team. Refer to the IBM PureData System for Transactions validated stack page [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg22010862] for a list of components and instructions how-to subscribe to security updates. 
5. IBM Software Services for Information Management are available to assist with key updates to your system or periodic health checks of the IBM PureData System for Transactions system. More information can be found at this link [http://www.ibm.com/software/data/services/database.html:]. 

In conclusion, there are many benefits to remaining on the validated software and firmware stack for the IBM PureData System for Transactions. The software and firmware levels have been extensively tested together by IBM, which helps to ensure that the entire stack is a stable working environment. Having many customers on the same set of software and firmware levels also simplifies problem resolution because the support team is familiar with this configuration and environment, and can therefore help resolve issues more efficiently. 

RELATED INFORMATION
 IBM PureData System for Transactions Stack Page [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg22010862]
IBM Analytics Services [https://www.ibm.com/analytics/services]