Title: IBM Information regarding PVU for HA - United States

Text:
DB2; high availability; HA TECHNOTE (FAQ)

THIS DOCUMENT APPLIES ONLY TO THE FOLLOWING LANGUAGE VERSION(S):
 English 

QUESTION
 What are the PVU considerations for distributed DB2? 

ANSWER
Licensing considerations for a hot standby machine:
As a general rule of thumb, a hot/hot configuration should be licensed in the same way you would license each server as if they weren't clustered for high availability.
Processor Value Unit (PVU) licensing
For any DB2 server that's licensed using the PVU model, the entire PVU rating of the hot standby server (machine 1 in this example) must be licensed. An exception to this would be if you are using the sub-capacity licensing that's available for all DB2 editions as of February 10th, 2009; in this case, you just license the PVU rating for the virtualized session. (There are some pre-requisites [http://www-01.ibm.com/software/lotus/passportadvantage/Counting_Software_licenses_using_specific_virtualization_technologies.html] to this kind of licensing that you should be aware of, so ensure you know all the details before deploying DB2 in this kind of environment.) Of course, you would use this same approach to license your DB2 server even if it weren't part of an HA cluster since it is servicing production work anyway, so there shouldn't be any surprises here. 


Licensing considerations for a warm standby machine:
Processor Value Unit (PVU) licensing
For any DB2 server that is licensed using the PVU model, you license a warm standby server for 100 PVUs no matter what kind of processing core architecture the server is based on. In other words, the fact that a server with a four dual core AMD processors equates to 400 PVUs and a server with four dual core POWER6 processors to 960 PVUs (and trust me, it will more than double the performance of previous server), with a warm standby server, you just license it with 100 PVUs of the corresponding DB2 edition. 


Licensing considerations for cold standby machine:
As of the general availability date of the DB2 9.5 release, a cold standby server doesn't need to be licensed and therefore there are obviously no licensing considerations. A good rule of thumb to determine if a standby machine can be classified as cold is to see if the DB2 instance is started; however, there are some exceptions. For example, if you took a snapshot image off of a production server and started the DB2 standby server for the sole purpose of performing a backup, then stopped it, we would consider that a cold standby and no license for that server would be required.