Title: IBM Invalid class string error when starting Gateway - United States

Text:
Gateway; invalid; install; Rhapsody TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I tried opening up Gateway the usual way—by right-clicking on the project name in the browser, then selecting “Rational Rhapsody Gateway”. When I did, I got the following error message:
Invalid class string 

SYMPTOM
Error message when launching Gateway from Rhapsody right-click menu or by double-clicking on rg.exe: 

 * 
 * 
 * [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21429122&amp;aid=1]


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Run "rhapsody.reg" to resolve this issue. 

You should be able to find the rhapsody.reg file in the directory where you installed Rational Rhapsody. Double clicking on this file will make changes to your registry, so it should be run by a user that has permission to change the registry. 



Disclaimer This solution contains information about modifying the system registry. Before making any modifications to the Microsoft Registry Editor, it is strongly recommended that you make a backup of the existing registry. For more information describing how to back up the registry, refer to Microsoft Knowledge Base article 256986 [http://support.microsoft.com/kb/256986]

Running the rhapsody.reg may not be enough and the following may also be required due to a Rational DOORS 8.3 issue where the registry settings are not present since the DOORS client has not been run as Administrator. On Microsoft Windows XP this is not a problem. However with Microsoft Windows Vista and Microsoft Windows 7, having the UAC enabled can cause the registry settings to not be created. 

The first time you run the client, it creates some registry entries. This works under Microsoft Windows XP without any special user access. However, under Microsoft Windows Vista and Microsoft Windows 7 with UAC enabled, the Rational DOORS client has to be launched once with Administrator privileges in order to add the registry entries. This is accomplished by right-clicking the shortcut and selecting "Run as Administrator" from the context menu. It is not necessary to login to the DOORS database. Once the registry entries have been added, special user access is not needed. 

 

If this does not resolve the issue, you may need to reinstall Rational Rhapsody using an administrator account.