Title: IBM How to configure Lotus Domino Web Server for Host On-Demand - United States

Text:
lotus domino; Lotus Domino; hod; HOD; web server; v6.5; configuration; config; configure; 1223183; 97139 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do you configure Lotus Domino Web Server to work with IBM Rational Host On-Demand? 

CAUSE
Lotus Domino is different from other Web Server configurations 

ANSWER
Use the following step-by-step instructions to configure Host On-Demand using Lotus Domino Web Server. 

Installation of Lotus Domino:


 1. Run the setup of Lotus Domino.
    
    
 2. Enter a username and companyName. Both are case sensitive. Remember the companyName and userid. They will be required later for configuring the server.
    
    
 3. Choose the program and data destination folder path.
    
    
 4. Choose the Domino Enterprise Server option.






Configuring Lotus Domino server: 
 1. Once the installation is over, start the Domino server from the Start menu. The Domino server setup begins.
    
    
 2. Select Set up the first server or a stand alone server.
    
    
 3. Provide a server name.
    
    
 4. Enter the password under organization password.
    
    
 5. Enter only the last name; remove the first and middle name. Enter administration password. Remember this user id and password for configuring the server.
    
    
 6. Select Web Browsers (HTTP services) for automatically running the webserver once the Domino server starts.
    
    
 7. Next, accept the defaults and continue the setup.






Configuring the Lotus Domino server for Host On-Demand using webadmin.nsf 
 1.  Java has to be installed on the machine which is used for configuring the Lotus Domino server.
     
     
 2.  Once the setup of the server is done, start the Domino server from the Start menu. 
     
     
 3.  In the browser, check for http://localhost or http://IP-Address to confirm the installation.
     
     
 4.  Open http://localhost/webadmin.nsf to configure the server.
     
     
 5.  Enter the userid and password from Step 5 of Configuring Lotus Domino server above.
     
     
 6.  Click on the configuration tab.
     
     
 7.  Click the Server on the left and All Server Documents.
     
     
 8.  Click on the server link that has been created and click Edit Server on the top. If you don't see any menu at the top, java is not installed properly.
     
     
 9.  Enable the Load internet configurations from server\Internet sites document.
     
     
 10. Click Save & Close on the top menu.
     
     
 11. Click on the Web > Internet sites menu on the left panel.
     
     
 12. Select Web from the Add Internet Site menu on the top.
     
     
 13. Give a descriptive name for the site. Enter the company name entered in Step 2 of Installation of Lotus Domino above. Remember the company name is case sensitive.
     
     
 14. Give the ip address of the system where Lotus Domino is installed.
     
     
 15. Remove the * and select the server that you entered in Step 2 of Configuring Lotus Domino server above.
     
     
 16. Click Save & Close in the top menu.
     
     
 17. Click on the website link you created which would be listed under Web (left panel) and Internet Sites.
     
     
 18. Click on the Website and select Create Rule in the top menu.
     
     
 19. Select Directory under Type of rule. 
     
     
 20. Enter the URL pattern under Incoming URL pattern. This is the alias one generally provides when configuring Apache. 
     
     For example, if we want to access Host On-Demand as http://IP-Address/hod/HODMain.html the incoming URL pattern should be /hod.
     
     
 21. Enter the path of Host On-Demand under Target Server Directory. 
     
     For example: C:\Program Files (x86)\IBM\HostOnDemand\HOD
     
     
 22. Click Save & Close under the top menu.
     
     
 23. Restart the Lotus Domino server. (Exit command will exit the Lotus Domino Server running in the console. Restart the server again).
     





Accessing Host On-Demand http://IP-Address/alias/... Alias is the url pattern entered under Step 20 of Configuring the Lotus Domino server for Host On-Demand using webadmin.nsf above.