Title: IBM How to change IBM FileNet Application Engine Workplace Site Preferences file's save location. - United States

Text:
filenet enterprise manager; site preferences for workplace; workplace; content engine; storage policies; storage area TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 The location where the Site Preferences for IBM FileNet Workplace file is saved needs to be changed. The existing file store where it is being stored will not be available in the near future. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Changing the storage location involves using FileNet Enterprise Manager (FEM) to edit the Preferences Document Class and then deleting and recreating the Site Preferences for Workplace file so the changes are picked up.


Process for changing stored location of the 'Site Preferences for Workplace' file: 


 1. Open FileNet Enterprise Manager (FEM). 
    
    
 2. In FEM, navigate to the default object store where the site preferences are stored. 
    
    The default object store can be confirmed by opening Workplace as an Administrator, navigate to 'Site Preferences/Workplace Preferences/Bootstrap' and locate the object store name under 'Preference Settings/Object Store location'.
    
    
 3. In FEM, navigate to '<object store>/Document Class/Preferences Document' and note the Default Storage Policy entry. At this point, you have two options for changing the location using Storage Policies.  *  Select a Storage Policy that uses the desired location. 
     *  Edit the Default Storage Policy '<object store>/Storage Policies' and select the desired Storage Area containing the desired location. 
       
       
    
    
 4. Delete the existing Site Preferences for Workplace file using FEM and recreate within Workplace.
    
     1.  In FEM, navigate to '<object store>/Root Folder/Preferences' and delete the file whose 'Containment/Folder Name' is 'Site Preferences for Workplace'. 
     2.  Launch Workplace and log in as Administrator. 
     3.  Navigate to 'Admin/Site Preferences'. 
     4.  Make any necessary changes to Site Preferences. 
     5.  Select Apply and then Exit. This will generate a new Site Preferences for Workplace which utilizes the new storage location.