Title: IBM Handling Modeling for Communications Applications Licensing - United States

Text:
RN7.5.4; SRX; WI25040; license expired; expired; Modeling for Communications Application TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 In Rational Software Architect version 7.5.4 there is a new licensed feature called Modeling for Communications Applications. As a licensed feature, its' license is handled independently of the Rational Software Architect license. In this tech note, we are going to address the most common questions that may arise when handling this new license. 

ANSWER
1. What type of license types does Modeling for Communications Applications support? 

A: It supports the same license type as Rational Software Architect. It includes Authorized User License, Authorized User Fixed Term License and Floating License. 
http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/rsawshlp/v7r5m0/index.jsp?topic=/com.ibm.xtools.installation.rsaws.doc/topics/c_license_product.html [http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/rsawshlp/v7r5m0/index.jsp?topic=/com.ibm.xtools.installation.rsaws.doc/topics/c_license_product.html]

2. How long is the trial period?
A: When you first install Modeling for Communications Applications feature, it has trial period of 30 days. 

3. What to do after the license expires?
A: When the Modeling for Communications Applications trial license expires, you need to either buy a permanent license and apply as you would normally apply the Rational Software Architect license or remove the feature from your installation. 

To remove it, use the IBM Installation Manager to Modify the install and remove that feature. Alternatively, you can use the 'Manage Licenses' screen from inside the product. You will be taken automatically to this screen when starting the product if the trial license has expired and you click on 'Manage Licenses' on the pop-up dialog. In the Manage Licenses panel you will be shown all the licenses your product is using, to remove the Modeling for Communications Applications license and it's corresponding feature you need to select it and click on the 'Uninstall' button. That will take you to the IBM Installation Manager where you have to unselect the feature to uninstall it.

4. For Floating licenses, do we need the same number of licenses for the Modeling for Communications Applications feature and Rational Software Architect? 
A: When you use Rational Software Architect with Modeling for Communications Applications feature installed, it consumes floating licenses for both products. 

If different number of floating number is being purchased, you should monitor the systems so that not all machines have the Modeling for Communications Applications feature installed. The other possibility is to install two copies of Rational Software Architect on the system: one with the Modeling for Communications Applications feature installed, and one without it. In this case, if you find that the feature is running out of licenses, you can start the version of Rational Software Architect without the feature installed.







Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Software Architect Standard Edition Licensing Linux, Windows 7.5.4