Title: IBM ALBD service may not startup after login to a domain from a Windows client - United States

Text:
xp; albd; login; novell; 1150785; ALBD service; startup TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This technote explains why the IBM® Rational® ClearCase® Atria Location Broker Daemon (ALBD) service does not startup after login to a domain from a Microsoft® Windows® XP client. 

CAUSE
 

The reason the ALBD service may not start automatically after logging into the domain on a Windows® client is due to a process timing issue where one process starts before the ALBD process causing it to halt.

Note: The ALBD can be started manually in this case.

The problem is known to occur (but not only) when Novell® network is configured in the environment and a login script is used during the login process in to the domain.

Example:

The typical login scenario is as follows: (Domain login > ALBD startup)

When Novell (or other network service) is configured and a startup script is fired after login, the script can cause the ALBD startup process to not start properly or at all: (Domain login > Network service startup script > ALBD).

This is a site-specific issue and not a defect with ClearCase.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 

WORKAROUND: 

Configure the Windows clients that have this startup script to have the ALBD service attempt to restart after the first failure. 

 

 1. Open the Computer Management Console (Right-click My Computer and select Manage)
    
    [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21150785&amp;aid=1]
    
    
 2. Expand Services and Applications and select Services
    
    [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21150785&amp;aid=2]
    
    
 3. Double-click Atria Location Broker and select Recovery tab
    
    
 4. In the section Select the computer's response if this service fails click the drop down menu under First failure and select Restart the Service
    
    Note: The default interval is 1 minute.
    
    [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21150785&amp;aid=3]
    
    
 5. Click Apply and OK.
    
    
 6. Restart or Log out and log back in to the PC to test the setting.
    
    
 7. The Atria Location Broker (ALBD) should start 1 minute after login. Change the Restart service after interval as needed until the ALBD automatically starts on the affected host.





Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational ClearCase ALBD Software Development Rational ClearCase Application Conflicts Software Development Rational ClearCase Application Conflicts