Title: IBM Service Policies preference page missing some WebSphere v7.0 policy sets - United States

Text:
policy sets; WAS 7.0; Missing; Service Policies; Kerberos V5 HTTPS default; SSL WSTransaction; LTPA WSSecurity default; SSL WSTransaction ; WSAddressing default; WSReliableMessaging persistent; RN7.5; SRX TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Six policy sets provided by WebSphere Application Server v7.0 are missing from the Service Policies preference and property pages. The missing policy sets are: Kerberos V5 HTTPS default, SSL WSTransaction, LTPA WSSecurity default, SSL WSTransaction , WSAddressing default, and WSReliableMessaging persistent. 






SYMPTOM
The missing policy sets cannot be attached to Web Services and clients.

CAUSE
The Policy sets are missing from the Service Policies preference and property pages.

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Open the Service Policies preference page (Windows > Preferences > Service Policies), and note that the missing policy sets are not listed. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The workaround is to first export the policy sets from the server using the administrative console, then import the exported policy sets into your workspace. After importing these policy sets into your workspace, you can attach them to your Web services and clients.




1. To export the policy sets from the WebSphere Application Server 7.0 server:
Start the server then open the administration console for the server.
Expand Services > Policy Sets > Application policy sets, and select one of the missing policy sets.
Select "Export...", then follow the instructions to save the archive file to the filesystem.

2. To import the policy sets into your workspace:
From the main menu, click File > Import > Web services > WebSphere Policy Sets. 
Browse to the .zip file containing the policy set you exported to the filesystem above, and click Finish. 

The policy sets that you have imported are displayed in the Service Policies preference and property pages and you can now define it as a default policy set and attach them to your Web services and clients. 

 

Here are the descriptions of the missing policy sets: 

 

 * Kerberos V5HTTPS default - This policy set provides message authentication by using a Kerberos V5 Token, and follows the OASIS Kerberos Token Profile specification. It also provides SSL transport security for the HTTP protocol with Web services applications. 
 * LTPA WSSecurity default - This policy set provides message integrity by digitally signing the body, time stamp, LTPA token, and WS-Addressing headers using RSA digital signing. Message confidentiality is provided by encrypting the body, signature, and LTPA token using RSA encryption. Message authentication is provided by using a LTPA Token. 
 * SSL WSTransaction -This policy set provides transaction integrity using WS-AtomicTransaction and WS-BusinessActivity context propagation using SSL. 
 * Username SecureConversation - This policy set provides message integrity by digitally signing the body, time stamp, signature confirmation, WS-Addressing headers, and Username token. Message confidentiality is provided by encrypting the body, signature, signature confirmation, and Username token. Message authentication is provided by using the Username Token. This policy set follows the WS-SecureConversation specification. 
 * WSAddressing default - This policy set provides uniform, transport-neutral WS-Addressing. 
 * WSReliableMessaging persistent -This policy set provides reliable message delivery using WS-ReliableMessaging and persistent storage, as well as uniform, transport-neutral WS-Addressing.