Title: IBM Takes too long to render Tables in the output in SPSS Statistics 18.0.x - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I am using SPSS Statistics 18.0.x and we're having performance issues, specifically regarding the length of time it takes for tables to render in the output window. We did not have this problem in versions such as 15 and eralier. 

Do you have any thoughts on how to improve performance? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
An option for making tables render faster was implemented in IBM SPSS Statistics 19. 

Beginning in version 19, tables can be rendered as full-featured pivot tables or as lightweight tables.

FULL Tables are rendered as full-featured pivot tables. This is the default.

LIGHT Tables are rendered as lightweight tables. Lightweight tables render faster but cannot be pivoted or edited.

Lightweight tables render faster than full-featured pivot tables, but they do not support many pivoting and editing features, including:

Lightweight tables cannot be pivoted. You can display different layers of a multi-layer table, but you cannot move table elements between dimensions (for example, swap rows and columns) or change the display position of rows or columns.
Lightweight tables cannot be edited. You cannot hide rows or columns, change column widths, modify data values, change cell or table properties, or apply different TableLooks.
Lightweight tables do not support custom dimension border properties defined in TableLooks. All other TableLook properties are honored at table creation time. 
Since lightweight tables cannot be edited, the Replace feature of the Find and Replace dialog will not replace the specified value in lightweight tables. 

To have your tables render in "lightweight" mode, please select Edit->Options->Pivot table tab, and then select the "Render tables faster" option. This setting will then persist for ALL pivot tables generated by any procedure until it is switched back to "Render tables with all features".

For more information on how to create lightweight tables instead of full-featured pivot tables, please open Statistics 19.
Use the Help -> Topics menu to search for pivot tables or lightweight tables.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 91740