Title: IBM Using Line Count with the OS/390 Indexer is not supported and can cause undesired page breaks when documents are viewed. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I am loading line data with carriage controls (CC) into an OnDemand application that I have defined (on the View Information tab) with both a Line Count value of 60 and with CC = Yes. When I view the loaded data from the OnDemand client most of the page breaks are wrong. Some pages have the correct number of lines per page while others have only a few lines on the page. Also, when I set the application to use Large Object (LO) support on the Load Information tab, though I know there should be 100 pages total when I go to page "100" (per the client) I don't see the expected last data. But, if I continue scrolling (to page "130 ") then I see the last lines of data that I expected to be on page 100.

Furthermore I have found that If I blank out the Line Count value in the application, the data will still display incorrectly. It's only after I reload the data with the Line Count value blanked out that the data will display correctly. Why am I getting these results? 

CAUSE
The OS/390 Indexer does not support LINECNT (the line count parameter).

ANSWER
The OS/390 Indexer requires that there be carriage control characters for line print reports that don't use the ANYSTORE exit. The OS/390 indexer ignores the LINECNT, CC and CCTYPE indexing parameters. 


The Line Count value (on the View Information tab) should match the value for LINECNT (from the Index Information tab) . so that indexing and viewing are in sync. 

Therefore, when using the OS/390 Indexer do not specify a value for Line Count . Instead, leave it blank, otherwise it can cause the undesired page breaks that you are seeing.

Note: OnDemand windows client 8.4.1.1 (or earlier) ignored the Line Count value on the View Information tab when the application was set to use LO (Large Object).

Note: Starting with OnDemand server version 8.5, when loading as LO, the value for Line Count is stored with the data in a Large Object Header. Therefore, for any changes to take effect you will need to reload the data. If the reload is done with arsdoc get/arsload, there is the added condition that you need to edit the generic index file generated by arsdoc get and change the LARGE_OBJECT_DOC_LINE_CNT: to -1