Title: IBM How to import a particular client-side certificate into an AppScan Standard scan - United States

Text:
1299954; certificate; client-side; client side; AppScan; pxf; pem; pkcs12; client_key.pem; client_cert.pem; client-side certificate; client side certificate TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do you import a particular client-side certificate into a scan for IBM Security AppScan Standard? 

CAUSE
When trying to perform a scan, you get an error asking for a client-side certificate.

ANSWER
If you do not have the certificate available, you can export the certificate from your Internet Explorer browser, and import it into the scan as follows. 

Note: AppScan supports one client-side certificate per scan. 


 

How to export a client-side certificate from Internet Explorer 

 

 1. Open Internet Explorer
    
    
 2. On the Tools menu, click Internet Options -- The Internet Options dialog box appears, with the General tab on top
    
    
 3. Click the Content tab
    
    
 4. Click Certificates -- The Certificate Manager dialog box appears
    
    
 5. On the Personal tab, select the certificate that you want to export and click Export
    
    The Certificate Manager Export Wizard appears. Follow the wizard to export the certificate in PKCS#12 format with the private key. Ensure that you select the option to 'Include all certificates in the certification path if possible'.
    
    When you give the wizard a password, take note of it; you will need it in the next steps.
    
    Note: If you cannot export the private key noted in the previous step (the option is grayed out), check with your IT department to see if it is required, and if so, you will need to re-import the certificate into IE while making sure that the 'Mark the private key as exportable' option is selected.
    
    After the certificate is exported (file will have a .PFX extension), Internet Explorer generates a key.
    



How to import a client-side certificate into a scan 


1. Open Scan Configuration > HTTP Authentication. 


2. In the Client-Side Certificate area, select PFX from the drop-down list. 


3. In the Certificate File text box, click the + icon and locate the certificate file (with .pfx extension). 


4. In the Certificate Password text box, enter the certificate password. 


5. Click OK. 





HISTORICAL NUMBER
 00002733