Title: IBM Sametime embedded users unable to attend meetings after applying POODLE fixes - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM
After applying the POODLE hotfixes to the Sametime meeting servers, users with the embedded Sametime client inside of Notes 9.01 are unable to attend meetings. 

Users may not be able to login at all, the message simply says the server is unavailable. 

Users who are able to login and attempt to join a meeting receive an error message that says: "Server Unreachable: The server running this meeting room appears to be down. Try accessing this room later." 

In addition, the window has a warning symbol that looks like a yellow triangle. 


[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21967992&aid=1] [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21967992&aid=1]

If users attempt to use a web browser, they are able to attend meetings without any issues.


CAUSE
The POODLE fixes disable SSLv3 and in this case, the Notes 9.0.1 (without hotfixes) or 9.0.1 with Fixpack 1 or 2 were used to access the server. These versions of Notes do not have the fixes for SSL v3, thus they are sending requests using SSLv3 which has been disabled on the server.


ENVIRONMENT
Sametime 9 Meeting server running POODLE fix or newer fix level. 

Embedded Sametime client inside of Notes 9.0.1 without any fixpacks, or fixpacks 1 or 2.


DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Confirm that meetings are working as expected using a browser. 

Open the SystemOut.log on the Meeting Server (or Meeting HTTP Proxy server if clustered). Look for these errors:
[10/1/15 10:55:47:848 EDT] 000000eb SSLHandshakeE E SSLC0008E: Unable to initialize SSL connection. Unauthorized access was denied or security settings have expired. Exception is javax.net.ssl.SSLHandshakeException: Client requested protocol SSLv3 not enabled or not supported 


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Option 1: All clients should be upgraded to a minimum of Notes 9.0.1 FP3 or higher. 

In order to resolve the issue, the client needs to be upgraded to a minimum of Notes 9.0.1 Fixpack 3. The SSL fixes are part of the Notes install, not the Sametime client install. 

 

Option 2: Allow SSLv3 for the meeting servers. 

This option is less secure and it is recommended to go with the first option of upgrading all the clients. In some environments this may take some time. In the interim, the Meeting server or HTTP Proxy that sits in front of the meeting server can be configured to allow SSLv3 while the rest of the environment still uses TLS. 

 

Steps: 

Part 1: Changing the Quality of Protection (QoP) Setting. 

Log into the Sametime System Console 

Click Security -> SSL certificate and key management -> CellDefaultSSLSettings 

Click the link "Quality of protection (QoP) settings. 

In the protocol field change the protocol to "SSL_TLS" 

Click Ok 

Save to the master configuration 

 

Part 2: Changing the Generic JVM arguments to allow for SSLv3. 

Log into the Sametime System Console 

Click Servers -> Server Types -> WebSphere Application servers. 

Please note if there is a WebSphere HTTP proxy sitting in front of the meeting server or meeting cluster, perform these steps on the proxy server's page instead of the appserver. Proxy servers are under Servers -> Server Types -> WebSphere Proxy Servers 

Click the name of the server that needs to be modified. 

Expand: "Java and Process Management" and click "Process definition" 

Click "Java Virtual Machine" 

In the "Generic JVM Arguments" field, append the following text: 

-Dcom.ibm.jsse2.disableSSLv3=false 

Click OK 

Save to the master configuration 

Sync all nodes. 

Restart the servers.