Title: IBM How to reserve SPSS network licenses for commuter use only - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 My organization has a network license for SPSS for Windows. I know in version 14.0 and beyond it's possible to reserve licenses at the license manager for specific users or groups of users and further that individual users have the ability to "check out" licenses for use as commuters -- i.e., they can then disconnect from the network and continue to use the SPSS license for some set period of time.

My question is this: must license reservations and commuter licenses be configured separately? I want the ability to reserve a certain number of licenses for commuter use ideally without have to specify explicitly who those commuters are. Right now it appears that there is no way to designate a license as "commuter" at the license manager level. A license becomes a "commuter" license simply by virtue of it being checked out by a user.

How can I make sure that a certain number of licenses are always available for a group of users who a) have to have a license available when they need one, and b) need that license to be "commutable"? 

ANSWER
I'm afraid there's no such thing as a "reserved commuter" license at present -- in other words, yes, they are configured completely separately. We have filed a feature request with SPSS Development to permit some cross-linkage between the two, but until that functionality is added, here's a hypothetical situation that describes a workaround:

Let's say I've got a 100-user network license. When I set up commuter licensing, I set the license server to allow no more than 30% commuter licenses -- so up to 30 separate users can request to "check out" a license. The 31st commuter check out request will be denied. 

Any user with the SPSS Commute utility (which is installed automatically with a Network license option installation) will be able to make a check out request. Currently the only way to restrict Commuting at the individual user level is to delete the shortcut and/or the utility post-installation.

Let's say I've got 20 users who I want to guarantee access to a "commutable" license. So first I have to reserve 20 licenses for their use only, whether they are commuting or not, and then I would have to delete or hide the SPSS 14 Commuter License program menu shortcut and the SPSSCommute.exe and WCommute.exe files from the SPSS installation directory for all users who I do not want to be able to commute ever.

Right now the rule of thumb is to set the commutability percentage to at least the number of people who have to have the ability to commute, and then you have to reserve licenses for those people.

Please see Resolutions 59826 and 56447 for detailed instructions on configuring commuter licenses and license reservation files.

We apologize for the inconvenience

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Modeler forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/modeler/?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 66306