Title: IBM Steps to replace the default certificate in TIP/WAS via the admin console - United States

Text:
TIPL2; TIPL2SSL; default certificate; ssl; CA; replace TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What is the procedure to replace the default certificate in Tivoli Integrated Portal via the admin console. 

ANSWER

High level Steps: 

 1. Backup the default keystore and truststore files 
 2. Create the certificate request 
 3. Receive the certificate from the CA 
 4. Replace the default certificate 
 5. Extract the signer for the new certificate from the keystore 
 6. Adding the signer certificate to the trust store 
 7. Update the active certificate alias


Detailed Steps: 
Backup the default keystore (key.p12) and truststore (trust.p12) files located at: 

<TIP HOME>/profiles/TIPProfile/config/cells/TIPCell/nodes/TIPNode/ 



Create the certificate request  1. Click Settings > Websphere Administration Console, Launch Websphere Administration Console. 
 2. Click Security > SSL certificate and key management > Key stores and certificates > NodeDefaultKeyStore. 
 3. Click Personal certificate requests > New. 
 4. Type the full path of the certificate request file. The certificate request is created in this location. 
 5. Type an alias name in the Key label field. The alias identifies the certificate request in the keystore. 
 6. Type a common name (CN) value. This value is the CN value in the certificate distinguished name (DN). 
 7. Type an organization value. This value is the O value in the certificate DN. 
 8. You can configure one or more of the following optional values:  1. Optional: Select a key size value. The default key size value is 1024 bits. 
     2. Optional: Type an organizational unit value. This organizational unit value is the OU value in the certificate DN. 
     3. Optional: Type a locality value. This locality value is the L value in the certificate DN. 
     4. Optional: Type a state or providence value. This value is the ST value in the certificate DN. 
     5. Optional: Type a zip code value. The zip code value is the POSTALCODE value in the certificate DN. 
     6. Optional: Select a country value from the list. This country value is the C= value in the certificate request DN.
    
    
 9. Click Apply.


Results 
The certificate request is created in the specified file location in the keystore. The request functions as a temporary placeholder for the signed certificate until you manually receive the certificate in the keystore. 


Receive the certificate from the CA  1. Click Security > SSL certificate and key management > Manage endpoint security configurations > Inbound > TIPNode(NodeDefaultSSLSettings) > Key stores and certificates > NodeDefaultKeyStore 
 2. Under Additional Properties, click Personal certificates. 
 3. Select a personal certificate. 
 4. Click Receive a certificate from a certificate authority. 
 5. Type the full path and name of the certificate file. 
 6. Select a data type from the list. 
 7. Click Apply and Save.


Results 
The keystore contains a new personal certificate that is issued by a CA. The original certificate request is changed to a personal certificate 


Replace the default certificate  1. Click Security > SSL certificate and key management > Manage endpoint security configurations > Inbound > TIPNode(NodeDefaultSSLSettings) > Key stores and certificates > NodeDefaultKeyStore 
 2. Under Additional Properties, click Personal certificates. 
 3. Select the certificate to be replaced. The alias list must include the certificate to be replaced and the certificate to replace it with. 
 4. Click Replace. 
 5. Select a replacement certificate alias from the list. 
 6. You can delete one of the following types of certificates:
    * Select Delete old certificate to delete the existing or expired certificate.
    * Select Delete old signers to delete the existing signer certificates. 
 7. Click Apply.


Results 
Your results depend on what you selected:  * 
 * 
 * 
 * 
 * 
 * o All of the SSL Configurations objects reference the certificate 
   o The Dynamic SSL Configuration Selections objects and the SSL Configuration group objects reference the certificate. 
 * 
 * 
 * 



Extracting the signer from the key store  1. Click Security > SSL certificate and key management > Manage endpoint security configurations > Inbound > TIPNode(NodeDefaultSSLSettings) > Key stores and certificates > NodeDefaultKeyStore 
 2. Click Extract certificate 
 3. Type the full path for the certificate file name. The signer certificate is written to this certificate file. For example, in Windows:
    
    c:\certificates\local_cert.arm
    
 4. Select the default data type from the list. 
 5. Click Apply and Save. The signer portion of the personal certificate is stored in the arm file that is provided.



Adding the signer certificate to the trust store 

If you created a server certificate, you must add it to the WebSphere application server (eWAS) trust store.  1. Copy your signed certificate to the directory that holds your application server trust store:
    
    <TIP HOME>/tipv2/profiles/TIPProfile/etc 
 2. Log on to the Websphere Administration Console. 
 3. In the navigation panel, select Security > SSL certificate and key management. The SSL certificate and key management page is displayed. 
 4. Under Related Items, click Key stores and certificates, and then select NodeDefaultTrustStore. The General Properties page for NodeDefaultTrustStore is displayed. 
 5. Under Additional Properties, click Signer certificates. A table that includes a list of signer certificates is displayed. 
 6. In the table, click the Add button to add your signed certificate. Provide the following information:  1. In the Alias field, type "trusted". 
     2. In the File name field, type the name of your certificate that you copied in step 1 of this section, for example, mycertificate.arm. 
     3. From the Data type list, select "Base64–encoded ASCII data". 
     4. Click OK to add the new certificate to the list.
    
    
 7. Log out of the administration console, and restart the server, to which you added the certificate. 
 8. 

Update the active certificate alias 
 1. On the "Signer certificates" page, click Manage endpoint security configurations in the series of links at the top of the page. 
 2. On the "Manage endpoint security configurations" page expand the Inbound node, if necessary, then click on TIPNode(NodeDefaultSSLSettings) under that node. 
 3. On the "TIPNode" page choose the alias name of the certificate from the drop-down list in Certificate alias in key store and click Apply. 
 4. On the "TIPNode" page, click Save. 
 5. Restart the TIP server.