Title: IBM "Excel experienced a serious problem with the 'excel and eqd com addin'
add-in" error message in Clarity application when opening a report in Excel - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When attempting to open a report in Excel from Clarity, an Excel add-in related error message is generated. This is happening on specific client machines.

The same error message appears when attempting to open a report within Clarity Studio. 

SYMPTOM
When trying to export in Excel the following error is generated: 

"Excel experienced a serious problem with the 'excel and eqd com addin' add-in. If you have seen this message multiple times, you should disable this add-in and check to see if an update is available. Do you want to disable this add-in?"

CAUSE
The issue is caused by the Essbase Query Designer Excel add-in, which interferes with Clarity on a specific machine. 



ENVIRONMENT
Clarity 7.2.1 

Essbase 


DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
In Clarity application: 

- Open a specific template/report in Clarity in browser; 

- Click on the "Open in Excel" option from the left panel; 

- Observe the error message that is generated. 

 

In Studio: 

- Open any report/template within Studio; 

- The above error message appears.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
In order to resolve the issue, you can either disable the Eqd Excel add-in or to re-install the Hyperion plug-in. 


Here are the steps needed to disable the add-in Excel:

1) Launch Excel
2) Click Office button and select Excel Options.
3) Select Add-ins in the left pane and select COM add-ins from the drop down under Manage. Click GO.
4) Uncheck the 'EXCEL and EQD COM Addin' as and click OK.
5) Click Office button and select Excel Options. Select Add-ins in the left pane and select 'Excel add-ins' from the drop down under Manage. Click GO.
6) Uncheck the 'Essbase Query Designer Addin' and click OK.

*Please note that Essbase Query Designer is not required for Essbase retrievals, it is an advanced add-in to do custom coding for queries. By following the above steps, you are only disabling the Essbase Query Designer add-in for both COM and Excel addins sections under Excel and not the main Hyperion Essbase add-in used by the users.