Title: IBM Easy way to convert client to network license from site license without re-installing - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Our renewal is up for SPSS, and we have quite a few machines that need a renewed license. I could push out the authorization code silently, but I now have a license manager set up. Is there a way that I can easily convert these stand-alone site license-authorized machines to look for the license manager for its license instead (e.g., in other software applications, you can place or edit a file in the program directory)? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The most complete way to convert a site license installation to a network license is, of course, to uninstall and re-install. But converting "on the fly" is certainly possible, and is certainly more convenient when you have multiple machines to work with.

A locally-licensed machine is made so by two things: the presence of a local license file in the SPSS installation directory (file name: lservrc), and having the DaemonHost parameter in the spssprod.inf file (also in the installation directory) set to the value "no-net".

So, to convert a locally-licensed machine to a network-licensed machine, all you have to do is:

a) delete or rename lservrc
b) edit the spssprod.inf file to set DaemonHost equal to the IP address or full server name of the machine running your License Manager:

from 

DaemonHost=no-net

To

DaemonHost=123.12.121.4

Or

DaemonHost=servername.domain.edu



If all the machines are in a lab, it's likely that their present spssprod.inf files are identical, so you could simply edit one, put it on a file share, and then push out a batch file to delete lservrc and copy spssprod.inf to replace the one there. Or, I assume there has to be a command-line utility available to perform a find-and-replace inside a specific text file -- which is all spssprod.inf is: opens in NotePad.


Now, the caveats: A network license installation from scratch will not include a License Authorization Wizard, which these machines will still have; and it will include the SPSS Commute utility, which (when configured for use at the License Manager) permits laptop users to "check out" a license token for SPSS for a specified period of time and then disconnect from the network, retaining the license. That's not an issue for desktops, but it would be a reason to do a full uninstall/reinstall if you have laptops to convert.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]
Need more help? Our Licensing forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/spsslicensing.html]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 81594