Title: IBM Q&A: Setting up and running an IBM SmartCloud Notes hybrid environment - United States

Text:
LLN; Lotus Live; admin; domino; Frequently Asked Questions for LotusLive Notes Administration setting up and running a hybrid environment TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
This technote provides questions and answers about some common problems along with troubleshooting tips for company administrators of IBM SmartCloud Notes hybrid environments.

ANSWER
 

Q1. 24 hours after the company administrator has changed a users common name in a hybrid environment, the user is still not seeing the change. Why is this and can the delay be avoided? 

A1. It may take some time for the name change to appear. If you want to force the change, you can have the user click the ID Vault Sync button in their Lotus Notes client by selecting File > Security > User Security, typing their Notes ID password, then clicking ID Vault Sync button on the Security Basics pane and selecting OK. 

 

Q2. When attempting to change the language of a user's mail template, only certain sections of the mail service display in the new language. 

A2. This can occur if the administrator has not also edited the user's account and set the new language. 

 

Q3. A user that has been setup in a hybrid environment can not login using their qualified Notes name as the username (for example Jay Test/LNNtest). 

A3. The users internet email address should be used for login instead (for example jaytest@lnntest.com) for the username login. If login is still no successful, please verify that the user does have an internet address included in their person document. If not please add one and re-provision the user. 

 

Q4. As administrator I have set up automatic message deletion rules but they do not appear to be working. 

A4. The automatic message deletion process involves moving the older messages to a specified temporary folder in the mail file, creating the folder if does not exist, and then deleting the messages from the folder. Each mail file is processed once every 7 days, but not all mail files are processed simultaneously. After the company administrator configures message deletion, it can take up to 7 days for messages to be deleted from a specific mail file. 

Additional Details: 
Message deletion involves a one week grace period. A particular user's mail file might not be processed until 7 days after the settings are configured; and in addition, once the mail file is processed, any messages noted as needing deletion are not deleted immediately, but are added to the "to be deleted" folder. 

Once the next processing of the user's mail file occurs (7 days later), any messages still in the "to be deleted" folder from the previous week are deleted. If soft deletions are enabled in the user's mail file (usually the case) the e-mail will still not be deleted immediately, but will sit in the Trash folder until the soft delete interval expires (typically another 48 hours). This is done to make sure the user has plenty of chances to retrieve and file any mail they really did not want deleted. So, it may require 16 days before a particular message that ages out is completely deleted. 

Other items to check: 

 * Make sure the user is not listed in the Exclude list. 
 * Elect to receive reports from the processing (that is, add your e-mail address to the field "Send e-mail report of the number of e-mails deleted to the following addresses". You can see this field in the screen shot of the E-mail Management panel in Step 6 above), and check whether they indicate any problems.



Q5. When attempting to set the SMTP server host name for routing to external internet domains in the SmartCloud Notes administration panel, one of the following errors are displayed: 
"SMTP relay host cannot be reached" or "Not a valid DNS name or IP address." 

A5. This can occur if the SMTP host you entered can not be resolved by DNS or SMTP listening is not enabled on the host. 


Q6. I am having trouble connecting to the on-premises Domino Passthru server when configuring the SmartCloud Notes hybrid environment. A6. When configuring your hybrid environment and trying to verify the connection to the on-premises Domino Passthru server, if: 

1. The following error is received: "Unable to retrieve list of servers from ... Unable to find path to server. " Check that your network connection to the Passthru server is working. Go to Preferences > Notes Ports and select Trace to discover where the connection fails. 

OR 

2. If during the connection attempt you are prompted to cross certify with the Passthru organization and receive a subsequent error: "Server error: The server's Domino Directory does not contain any cross certificates capable of authenticating you." Confirm that you used the correct existing certifier. 


Q7. In a SmartCloud Notes hybrid environment do I need to maintain my on-premises ID vault(s)? 

A7. All user IDs under the parent certifier that issues the Vault Trust Certificate are authorized for storage in the ID vault. However only the IDs of users with SmartCloud Notes accounts are uploaded to the ID vault. You will want to keep any on-premises ID vaults in use by on-premises users.


Q8. How can contents of an existing mail file (.nsf) be transferred to a new SmartCloud Notes mail file? 

A8. For hybrid environments, IBM can assist with content migration. Refer to the following wiki article for details - "Preparing to use current mail files with the service [http://www-10.lotus.com/ldd/bhwiki.nsf/xpDocViewer.xsp?lookupName=Administering+SmartCloud+Notes%3A+Hybrid+Environment#action=openDocument&res_title=Preparing_to_use_current_mail_files_with_the_service_HY&content=pdcontent]".