Title: IBM Configuration of Storage Authentication Service (SAS) to TIP fails - United States

Text:
TIPL2; TIPL2CONF; TS3500; tape; SAS; Storage Authentication Service; TIP; Tivoli Integrated Portal TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Configuring SAS to Tivoli Integrated Portal on a storage device (such as the TS3500) fails with "Access Denied" 

SYMPTOM
The SAS connection fails to authenticate the user, producing an "Access Denied" error.


CAUSE
 

There are a few known issues with SAS on storage devices. They are: 1. The group names defined in TIP that map to roles on the storage device must be 14 characters or less. 2. The group names defined in TIP must not include hyphens 3. The case of the role name on the storage device must match the case of the group name defined in TIP. 4. The order that the roles are created on the storage device might be a factor. At the time this document was written, the role creation order requirement was still not understood. 
DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
 

Verify LDAP users are able to log into TIP directly, and the appropriate 
authorization is working for the userIDs. It is possible that some users are able to log into the TS3500 but not TIP. This is true when the TIP version is 1.x, and the user's in question have no role assignment in TIP (either directly or via a group they belong to). Ensuring all users can log into TIP will eliminate the TIP configuration as a culprit in the TS3500 SAS authentication failure.

Other things to check:
Log in as a user with the administrator role and browse the group membership 
for the userIDs in question. Verify the group names comply with the following 
requirements:  1. The group names defined in TIP that map to roles on the storage device must be 14 characters or less. 
 2. The group names defined in TIP must not include hyphens 
 3. The case of the role name on the storage device must match the case of the 
    group name defined in TIP.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Correct any group names that do not comply, and verify the corresponding role 

name has been defined on the storage device. For example, if the LDAP userID 
in TIP belongs to the group "group1", verify a role by the same name "group1" 
exists on the storage device.
Note: Other than the requirement that the group names defined in the user 
repository used by TIP comply with the naming requirements listed previously, 
there is no configuration in TIP required to support Storage Authentication 
Service (SAS).