Title: IBM Tables Created In MS Word Do Not Display Correctly - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
IBM Lotus Notes R6.5.1, 6.5.2, and 6.0.4 do not correctly display table borders for MIME messages created in Microsoft Word. Earlier Notes versions of 6.0, up to and including 6.0.3, and 6.5 did not have this problem. This issue is not reproducible in either WebMail or Domino Web Access. 

ANSWER
This issue was reported to Quality Engineering as SPR# RAHO623P9S and an enhancement request was submitted to fix this in a future release. 

A possible workaround is to set the User Preferences in the Person Document to "Notes Rich Text" and convert the HTML to an attachment by using the following Notes.INI parameter, "MIME_CONVERT_HTML_TO_ATTACHMENT=1," on the server receiving inbound SMTP mail.

However, this parameter is nonspecific and will convert all body parts in all messages containing HTML code to attachments.

NOTE: There is no problem with table presentation if you create a simple HTML file using an HTML editor to create the table. The problem appears to be with the way the HTML code is generated by Word. 

The HTML table generated by Word is defined using style sheets. This is different from the simple HTML table that which simply sets <table border="1"> as the table tag. For example, the following is an example of a Word-generated table definition using a table style sheet: 
table.MsoTableGrid
{mso-style-name:"Table Grid"; 
mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0;
mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; 
border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; 
mso-border-alt:solid windowtext .5pt; 
mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;
mso-border-insideh:.5pt solid windowtext; 
mso-border-insidev:.5pt solid windowtext; 
mso-para-margin:0in; 
mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt;
mso-pagination:widow-orphan; 
font-size:10.0pt;
font-family:"Times New Roman";} 

The table itself is defined using the style, but also includes additional specific border tags as follows: 

<table class=MsoTableGrid border=1 cellspacing=0 cellpadding=0 style='border-collapse:collapse;border:none;mso-border-alt:solid windowtext .5pt; mso-yfti-tbllook:480;mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;mso-border-insideh: .5pt solid windowtext;mso-border-insidev:.5pt solid windowtext'>

TO REPRODUCE

1. Create a new document in Word and insert a table with two rows and two columns.

2. Enter text into each cell of the table.

3. Save the document.

4. Send the document as a message through the SMTP Server to a Notes mail account.

5. Open the message in Notes R6.5.1, R6.5.2, or R6.0.4. The table borders are missing for most table cells. If you open the message in R6.0.3 or 6.5, the table appearance is correct.




 * 
 *  PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
    Lotus Notes
   Lotus Domino