Title: IBM Job Code Default Data (JCDD): Common Errors and Resolutions - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Common Errors and Resolutions when importing Job Code Default Data (JCDD) via Workbench. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 

ERROR CAUSE/RESOLUTION [Field Name]: Codes must contain alphanumeric characters. The only permitted non-alphanumeric characters are dash (-) and underscore (_). A code may not start with a dash (-). CAUSE: The field contains an invalid character. Only alphanumeric characters, dashes, and underscores are allowed.
RESOLUTION: Remove any non-alphanumeric characters (except for dashes and underscores) from that field. [Field Name] is not a valid value CAUSE: The option provided for the field does not exist in the option list. 
RESOLUTION: Add the option to the field’s option list and re-import your spreadsheet. [Field] Input string was not in a correct format.. CAUSE: The data entered for the field does not match the field type. 
RESOLUTION: Review what was entered for the field and confirm that it matches the field’s field type. For example, if the field is a numeric field but you have entered a special character ($, #, etc) with numeric characters, or if you have added alphabetic characters. Remove any characters that do not match the field’s field type restrictions. Approval [Approval group name] is not a valid value. CAUSE: The Approval Group listed is not valid. 
RESOLUTION: Check that the Approval Group exists and is spelled correctly. Note: Exporting out JCDD may automatically add a “Defaultreqnoselection” value in the approval groups columns if no default has been set up for that job code. To resolve this issue, clear this value from the rows and re-import. [Option] is not a legal value for WorkLocation (English (US)). CAUSE: The option provided for the field does not exist in the option list. 
RESOLUTION: Add the option to the field’s option list and re-import your spreadsheet. External table is not in the expected format CAUSE: The file that is attempting to be loaded is not in the proper format.
RESOLUTION: Go back to your file format. Compare your file with a file just exported from Workbench, reviewing the tab names to ensure accuracy and the column headers on the Defaults tab. If no differences are found, it is recommended to copy and paste your information into a new spreadsheet and attempt the import again. If that does not work, save your Excel spreadsheet as an ".xlsx" doc then manually go into your files and edit the name, removing the "x" to make it ".xls", then import again. Form specified does not match the import profile CAUSE: There is unsupported HTML tags in a field within your spreadsheet.
RESOLUTION: Remove any unsupported HTML in the Job Description field. The conversion of a nvarchar data type to a datetime data type resulted in an out-of-range value. The statement has been terminated. CAUSE: Date format is incorrect.
RESOLUTION: Review your date fields and ensure that the format is correct (MM/DD/YYYY) Conversion failed when converting date and/or time from character string. CAUSE: Date format is incorrect.
RESOLUTION: Review your date fields and ensure that the format is correct (MM/DD/YYYY) No. of Positions must be a whole number. CAUSE: The No. of Positions field has something other than a numerical value.
RESOLUTION: Update the No. of Positions field on the spreadsheet to include only numerical values. ['Defaults$' OR 'Properties$'] is not a valid name. Make sure that it does not include invalid characters or punctuation and that it is not too long. CAUSE: The file is missing the appropriate tab(s) or the tab(s) are not labeled properly.
RESOLUTION: The file must have 2 tabs, a Properties tab and a Defaults tab. Make sure that your spreadsheet has these tabs and they are appropriately labeled. Property ‘client' does not match the import file CAUSE: On the Properties tab, the client name entered is not correct.
RESOLUTION: On the Properties tab, correct the spelling or format of the client name. Exporting the current JCDD and keeping the Properties tab as-is will prevent this error from occurring. [Field] cannot contain restricted ASCII characters CAUSE: The field indictated in the error contains ASCII characters; which must be removed.
RESOLUTION: The field must be updated to remove the ASCII characters. (ASCII stands for American Standard Code for Information Interchange. Computers understand numbers, so an ASCII code is the numerical representation of a character such as 'a' or '@' or an computer action of some sort.) You can attempt to copy/paste into a notepad to remove the characters and then paste into the spreadsheet. Manually removing the characters may also work if you are aware of the characters causing the error. Object reference not set to an instance of an object. CAUSE: Typically, this error results from system issues, not related to your import/export.
RESOLUTION: We recommend waiting 5-15 minutes and trying the import/export again. Error converting data type varchar to int. CAUSE: Field Headers are missing in the spreadsheet.
RESOLUTION: When uploading the JCDD spreadsheet your column headers (containing field names) must match exactly to what is exported originally from Workbench. The first way to resolve this is to match the column headers that are being imported to what is exported from Workbench. Another way to resolve this is to use the “Overwrite All” option on the mapping page. This will bypass the matching column header requirement (skipping the unmatched columns). more than one record matched criteria. CAUSE: Multiple records exist for this one Job Code. By exporting the full JCDD list you will see that there are multiple lines for this one Job Code.
RESOLUTION: Please put a ticket in with the Global Support Center. IBM engineering will have to delete/remove the duplicate data for that Job Code. 


JUMP TO: TOPIC LINK Table of Contents Click Here [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21988845] Preparing the JCDD Spreadsheet for Import into Workbench Click Here [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21988813] Performing the JCDD Import (Power User Access) Click Here [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21988811] Performing the JCDD Import (Tier 5 User Access) Click Here [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21988812] Reading the JCDD Results File Click Here [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21988809] 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Smarter Workforce BrassRing on Cloud Smarter Workforce IBM Kenexa BrassRing on Cloud