Title: IBM Configure Content Platform Engine Data Sources With Oracle 12c (non-RAC configuration) - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How can I configure the Content Platform Engine data sources with Oracle 12c using pluggable databases (PDBs) for non-RAC configuration? 

CAUSE
Starting with Oracle 12c database, the default Oracle database listener for the default instance is not configured to use a System ID (SID). For pluggable databases (PDBs), a default service is created automatically with the same name when the PDB is first created. Note that Oracle documentation states this default service should only be used for administrative tasks and cannot use for applications. Oracle documentation recommends creating user-defined services for applications in order to customize these services to fit the requirements of the applications.
At the moment, the Content Platform Engine Configuration Manager only provides the user to specify a SID and does not provide a way to configure a service name for PDBs (non-RAC configuration). As a result, the user is unable to create the GCD or object store data sources and unable to connect to the Oracle databases.


ANSWER
The Content Platform Engine Configuration Manager issue will be addressed in a future fix pack. As a workaround, select the "RAC support" option when creating and configuring the JDBC data sources in order to specify service names for the PDBs. Please follow the steps below: 



WebSphere Application Server

1) Start the Content Platform Engine Configuration Manager
2) Open an existing or create a new profile for Content Platform Engine deployment
3) For the "Configure GCD JDBC Data Sources" and "Configure Object Store JDBC Data Sources" task, select "Oracle JDBC Driver (RAC support)" instead of "Oracle JDBC Driver" (even for non-RAC configuration as this is the workaround)
4) Enter the Oracle server name and port for the "Oracle JDBC RAC data" (e.g., myoracle-server:1521)
5) Enter the service name for the PDB (e.g., myPDBService)
6) Enter the appropriate data for the remainder of the fields.
7) Run the "Configure GCD JDBC Data Sources" and "Configure Object Store JDBC Data Sources" and ensure that CMUI could communicate with the database server and the data sources are created successfully.


WebLogic and JBoss Application Server

1) Start the Content Platform Engine Configuration Manager
2) Open an existing or create a new profile for Content Platform Engine deployment
3) For the "Configure GCD JDBC Data Sources" and "Configure Object Store JDBC Data Sources" task, select "Oracle JDBC Driver (RAC support)" instead of "Oracle JDBC Driver" (even for non-RAC configuration as this is the workaround)
4) Enter the Oracle server name, the port, and the service configured for the "Oracle JDBC RAC data" (e.g., myoracle-server:1521/myPDBService)
5) Enter the appropriate data for the remainder of the fields.
6) Run the "Configure GCD JDBC Data Sources" and "Configure Object Store JDBC Data Sources" and ensure that CMUI could communicate with the database server and the data sources are created successfully.