Title: IBM Collect troubleshooting data for IBM Business Process Manager Advanced Pattern - United States

Text:
BPM; Pattern; Mustgather; Instance TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 You are having a problem with the IBM Business Process Manager (BPM) Advanced Pattern. You would like to know what information you must collect (MustGather) so that the IBM Business Process Manager Pattern Support team can diagnose your problem. If you gather this documentation before contacting support, it will expedite the troubleshooting process and save you time. 

CAUSE
Collecting data helps the IBM Business Process Manager Pattern Support Team: 

 * Determine if the symptoms match known problems 
 * Identify a non-defect problem 
 * Find a work around to reduce severity 
 * Locate the root cause

ENVIRONMENT
There are a number of different possible scenarios for which you might need to collect documentation for your IBM Business Process Manager Pattern issue. For example, the data might be needed for issues deploying a pattern, applying maintenance, developing or running applications, and so on.



DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Provide a detailed problem description: 

 * What symptoms do you see? 
   
   
 * Which IBM Business Process Manager component or application is involved? 
   
   
 * Do you see any error messages? Provide screen shots if applicable.
   
   
 * What is the time stamp when the problem occurs? 
   
   
 * Did the current problem scenario work previously? If yes, what has been changed? 
   
   
 * Is this issue reproducible? Do you see any indicators on why this problem happens? 
   
   
 * How often does the problem occur?



If you are running a virtual system pattern, then provide all the product log files for the pattern instance using the console MustGather:  1. Navigate to Workload Console > Instances > Virtual Systems > your_instance_name.
    
    
 2. In the Virtual Machine section, expand each of the virtual machines.
    
    
 3. Under each Virtual Machine, in the Script Packages section:  1. Under the "Must Gather Logs" script, click Execute Now.
        
        
     2. In the pop-up, enter the root ID and the associated password.
        Note: Always use the root ID; otherwise all of the documentation might not be collected.
        
        
     3. When the data collection process is complete, download the cloudburst_collect*.zip file and upload the .zip file to your Service Request / Problem Management Report (PMR). Ensure that this process is done for every virtual machine in the running instance.
        
        
     4. In some circumstances, IBM might also request the remote_std_out.log and remote_std_err.log files be sent. These files are found in a directory immediately above the cloudburst_collect*.zip file.
    
    

 * 

If you are running a virtual application pattern, then provide all the product log files for the pattern instance using the console MustGather:  1. Navigate to Workload Console > Instances> Virtual Applications.
    
    
 2. For the InstanceType drop-down, you can select All, or select your specific IBM Business Process Manager instance type.
    
    
 3. Select your_instance_name.
    
    
 4. Select the Manage option.
    
    
 5. Select the Logging tab.
    
    
 6. Select Download All. A compressed download file (.zip) is created for every virtual machine. Ensure that all compressed files (.zip) are downloaded and sent in the Service Request / Problem Management Report (PMR). 



Provide the version information by completing the following steps:  1. Log into the Deployment Manager virtual machine.
    
    
 2. Run theversionInfo -fixpacks -ifixescommand from the bin directory of your IBM Business Process Manager product installation and redirect the output to a file.
    
    
 3. Send the output file with the Service Request / Problem Management Report (PMR).



In some cases (as with some deployment issues), it will be necessary to provide the Workload Console system logs. To provide these logs when requested by IBM, complete the following steps:  1. Navigate to Workload Console > System > Troubleshooting.
    
    
 2. Click Download log files, and upload the compressed (.zip) file to the PMR.

 



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Integration IBM Business Process Manager Advanced Pattern on AIX Documentation AIX 8.0.1 Business Integration IBM BPM Advanced Pattern on Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server Documentation Linux Red Hat - xSeries 8.5.0.1, 8.0.1, 8.0 Business Integration IBM Business Process Manager Application Pattern Documentation AIX, Linux Red Hat - xSeries 8.5 
PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 BPM