Title: IBM Kenexa BrassRing on Cloud: Rules Automation Manager (RAM) FAQ - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Commonly asked questions about our Rules Automation Manager (RAM) functionality. 

ANSWER
 

Question Answer What is the RAM trigger run frequency? RAM triggers run every minute. However, this is will depend on the load on the system at the time. Results will vary. How does the Update HR Status action work? Any HR status can be selected for a HR Status Update action. If there is a need to update a candidate to an HR status that does not follow the Closed tracking logic, then the client setting “ByPass ClosedLogic when Updating HRStatus in RAM” will need to be enabled or the action will fail. What is a good practice for RAMs that evaluate modified req form fields? When you use the trigger mechanism of Req Edit followed by rules with conditions evaluating Req form fields that may have been modified, configure a trigger delay of at least 30 minutes. This allows enough time for the data to be processed in order to evaluate both the old and new values. How do the Req and candidate context work? The list of conditions and actions available are driven based on the trigger mechanism, trigger event, and trigger context. Sometimes req or candidate information cannot be used since the above configured items do not have req or candidate context. As an example, a multiple per candidate form not tied to a req. When using this form as the trigger, req conditions and actions are not allowed since the req is not in context. In addition, actions such as updating an HR status are not allowed, since the HR status update occurs within a req. The trigger context attribute can be used to get around this, but it may produce undesired results. What is a good practice when using the Not Equals Operation with req form fields? When using the Not Equals operation with req form fields, it is important to also create a second condition to check the req template. This ensures that the Not Equals operation is evaluated correctly even when the trigger is run in the context of another req template. How can I edit the Triggering Event once the RAM is created? Once Rules are created for the RAM the triggering mechanism cannot be edited. There are three choices: (1) Delete the entire trigger and create a new one, making sure to update the Triggering Event accordingly. (2) Delete all of the Rules, update the Triggering Event and re-add the Rules. (3) Create a new trigger and copy the rule from the old trigger before deleting the old trigger. How can I delete a RAM trigger? RAM triggers can only be deleted in draft mode. If the RAM has been inactivated, it has to be re-activated and then edited (to put it into draft mode). Then it can be deleted. What if I have actions that involve form fields and are dependent on each other? Should I add them to the same rule? Do not put actions that are dependent on each other involving form fields in the same rule. Example:
Action - Update form field X to value Blue. Send communication notice to candidate where field X is a criterion for a blurb in that communication. The form may not get updated in time to pull the correct value needed for the blurb if both are actions are in the same rule. You can’t arrange the order of operations in a rule.
Solution: Have the form update in a rule then send the communication in next rule. I have attached a candidate form to a communication that is sent via a RAM trigger, but when I receive the email, the link to the form is not present. How can I fix this? The Candidate Form attribute called “Send Form in Edit Mode” must be enabled. This will allow a candidate form link to be visible/clickable within your communication. My RAM is failing to update the candidate’s status in my Closed Reqs, what can help resolve this? If you are attempting to update a candidate’s status (via a RAM) in a req that is Closed, the client setting “RAM-Allow HR Status update for closed reqs” must be enabled first. This client setting will allow your RAM to update the candidate’s status even through the req is in a closed status. (Please reach out to your IBM representative to enable this client setting.) My RAM is failing to update the candidate’s status in my Cancelled Reqs, what can help resolve this? If you are attempting to update a candidate’s status (via a RAM) in a req that is Cancelled, the client settings “RAM-Allow HR status update to trigger candidate export integrations” and “RAM – Allow HR Status update for closed reqs” must be enabled first. This client setting will allow your RAM to update the candidate’s status even through the req is in a cancelled status. (Please reach out to your IBM representative to enable this client setting.) I’ve created a RAM that will update my candidate to the HR status that kicks off my Background Check process. It’s updating the candidate’s status but not sending them to my Background Check vendor via the integration, what can help resolve this? If you are attempting to update a candidate’s HR Status (via a RAM) to something that would send the candidate in an integration over to your Background Check vendor, you will need the client setting “RAM-Allow HR status update to trigger candidate export integrations” enabled first. This client setting will allow RAM to update the HR status and kick off the integration. (Please reach out to your IBM representative to enable this client setting.) I have inactivated/deleted a RAM trigger but my users/candidates are reporting that they are still receiving the communications and/or seeing the effects of the trigger in the BrassRing system. What is happening and how can I resolve it? This is most likely being caused by a RAM trigger that had a delay configured. If the RAM was triggered (but not executed) prior to inactivation/deletion, the trigger rules will still be read and the actions will still be carried out after the delay has elapsed. This will occur despite the RAM inactivation/deletion. Solution: PRIOR to inactivation/deletion, create a new first rule with no condition and an Exit Action as the action. This will stop the trigger from reading any of the subsequent rules. If the trigger has been deleted prior to adding the exit rule, submit a support ticket requesting engineering to activate the trigger again. If, when the trigger is activated again, the rules appear to be missing and there is no option to add rules, request IBM’s engineering team to use a different trigger with the exit rule to define the rules for the deleted trigger. To avoid such an issue, we recommend the use of the “Delay Triggering” and “Aging” Delay Mechanisms instead of Delay Processing. Condition with date: What does the date > DD (90) mean? The Date will be compared with the current date when the trigger runs +90 days. The condition will be true if the Date is more (greater) than 3 months (90 days) in the future. Condition with date: What does date < DD (-90) mean? The Date will be compared with the current date when the trigger runs -90 days. The condition will be true if the date is older (less) than 3 months (90 days) in the past. I added a new rule and the new rule has not processed? Two possible explanations:
(1) Trigger status is “success with exit action” – meaning that an action that terminated/exited the trigger (such as an HR Status Update) was taken before the new rule. To resolve this, reorder the rules so the rule that has the exit action falls after other rules that you would like to run.
(2) A new version of the trigger was created and, by design, older reqs will still use the older version of the trigger. To resolve this, delete the older version of the trigger so the new trigger version will be used for all reqs. What is the minimum delay for a trigger? RAM will honor any delay of 0.1 hour (6 minutes) or higher for the Delay Mechanism of Delay Processing. Delays below 0.1 will be ignored.
For any delay of 1 hour or more, you should use the Delay Mechanism of Aging or Delay Triggering, instead of Delay Processing. On the “Update HR Status” action, what is the difference between the top two options (“Only update in other reqs (all active req templates)” and “Only update in other reqs (this req template)”) and the bottom two options (“Update across all active reqs in all req templates” and “Update across all active reqs in this req template”)? The top two options (“Only update in other reqs (all active req templates)” and “Only update in other reqs (this req template)”) will only update the HR Status but will not trigger another RAM based on that HR status (if there is one set up). The bottom two options (“Update across all active reqs in all req templates” and “Update across all active reqs in this req template”) will update the HR status and will trigger another RAM based on that HR status (if there is one set up). Can I select more than one HR Status as the Triggering Event for a single trigger? Yes, you can select multiple HR statuses when building a RAM trigger. It is recommended that you add conditions to the various rules to look for the specific status when the rule runs. This can help reduce the number of triggers your organization may have to create. 

Additional RAM Information can be found in the “Rules Automation Manager Guide” located here [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/entdocview.wss?uid=swg22005003]. 
Want help reading the RAM log? Click here [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21988912]. 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Smarter Workforce IBM Kenexa Talent Suite