Title: IBM When I add a license to my SPSS product I receive either error code: 30019 or Sentinel LM: Error[93]. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I am attempting to license my SPSS product either via the License Authorization Wizard (for single and site license installations) or via the Sentinel License Manager (for network license installations.) When I enter my authorization code/license code, I encounter one of the following errors:

Error Code: 30019

The License Code that you entered is not valid. Please enter a License Code from SPSS. Possibly you entered the Authorization Code that came with your product. If you did, click Back and use your Authorization Code to get a license from SPSS via the Internet, Telephone, or E-mail.

Sentinel LM: Error[93]: Failed to add license code
License already added on host "no-net". 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
There are two possiblities for this error:

1. You to not have write permissions to create or modify the license file (called lservrc, located in the root, bin or licensing directories of your SPSS prodcuts installation directory or in the Sentinel License Manager's WinNt directory.) Please log in as a local administrator and ensure you have write permission to the lservrc file and/ or the directory the lservrc file should be located in. After correcting the permisions, please attempt to re-license. 

2. If you continue to license SPSS prodcut with the same authorization code, this error will some times appear. Edit the license files (called lservrc.) Verify this license file does have a license added. Try to launch your SPSS product client and see if you can launch the product without error.

Note: If running Window Vista, please ensure that you start the License Authorization Wizard, by right-clicking the shortcut and choosing "Run as administrator".

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]
Need more help? Our Licensing forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/spsslicensing.html]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 67386