Title: IBM Disabling interbatch prompts in Taskmaster Client - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do I disable the "Stop/Continue" prompt between batches in IBM DatacapTaskmaster Client? 

ANSWER
Background 

In Taskmaster Client, batches can be processed 2 ways: a) by double-clicking a batch's QID in the Job Monitor or b) running an Operations shortcut. In certain cases running a shortcut may display a filtered Job Monitor window from which a batch must be run, e.g. shortcut is configured to show any batches in hold status. When running a shortcut, prompts between batches are displayed to the operator. 

 

In Taskmaster 7.6 and earlier, there are two prompts displayed: one to either finish the batch or place it on hold, and one to stop or continue processing the shortcut. IBM Datacap Taskmaster Capture 8.0.0 and 8.0.1 combines these prompts into one after completion of a batch. It is possible to disable either prompt(s) by altering the 'Prompt between batches' setting in Taskmaster Client. 

 

Note: In certain cases such as an aborted batch and 'continue on abort' disabled, certain options stated above may not be selectable. 

 

Disabling Prompt Between Batches 

The 'Prompt between batches' setting determines whether certain messages are to be displayed to operators between batches. This setting is stored in the machine's system registry on a Windows user basis. You can enable or disable the setting through Settings | General | Advanced: 

 * Check 'Prompt between batches' if prompts are to be kept 
 * Uncheck 'Prompt between batches' if prompts are not to be displayed


This setting can be found in the system registry as follows: 

HKEY_USERS\[SID]\Software\Datacap\Task Master Client\Station\'Prompt between batches' 

 * 
 * 
 * - When set to 1, Taskmaster Client will prompt between batches for that Windows user


Note: Prompt between batches should not be disabled if processing one or more batch creation tasks. Additionally, disabling 'Prompt between batches' and 'Continue on abort' may lead to aborts quickly cascading under certain conditions such as network connectivity issues causing application rules to be inaccessible.