Title: IBM How to map to a summary record when no EDI summary segments are received. - United States

Text:
Mapping; Translation; STERLINGHTG TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How to map to a summary record when no EDI summary segments are received. 

ANSWER


Preferred method: (For Gentran:Basic 6.2 and above) A new 'Inbound Application Constant Records' feature allows you to output records containing only constants or reserved words. For example, you can map EDI trailer information or create summary records using totals calculated during processing. There are three types of Application Constant Records that occur during the following points in the mapping process. End of Section Records can be output at the end of each section, which may be in the middle of a single transaction. Trailer Records are output when corresponding EDI trailers are read. There are separate record types for Transaction, Group, and Interchange trailers. End of Run Records occur only at the end of the mapper run. They are useful for file totals that span multiple Documents or Interchanges. See Chapter 7 in the Gentran:Basic for zSeries User’s Guide for complete details. Workaround: (For Gentran:Basic 6.0 and 6.1) If you do not use the 'Inbound Application Constant Records', you must follow the rule that constants and reserved words are only triggered when at least one piece of information is mapped. A normal application record will not output if it contains solely of constants or reserved words. 1) Create a Mandatory segment or copy Mandatory segment NOT used already in the transaction map and declare it Summary on EDIM504 panel (Jump Code 5.2.5) (Dummy Summary Segment) 2) Map a literal or reserved word on EDIM514 to initiate a summary record generation. 3) Map the rest of the application record using the application field value function. 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Commerce Sterling Gentran for z/OS Mapping and Translation 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 HTG2747