Title: IBM Restoring associations lost when backup of xmeta repository is deleted in IBM InfoSphere Metadata Workbench - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 As preparatory to a migration attempt, took a backup of the XMETA database of the current production server.

After taking the backup, one of the hostsystems (and its contained datasources, data collections etc..) were deleted through DataStage > Repository > MetaDataSharing > Management

Now, it is realized that the MWB users were using that host/datasources and have now lost the associations to those datasources.

Can the associations to the host/datasources be restored? 

ANSWER
The MWB references the Host / Database objects with regard to Lineage - above being a simple browse mechanism for the information contained in XMETA, namely browsing the Database and Database Schema, Table and Columns.
Lineage is calculated when invoking the Automated Services, but also relies upon other Administrative Tasks. These Tasks must be re-run on the system after the Host / Database object is restored. The metadata associated with the Host / Database is not part of the Asset Interchange (backup / restore) service. 

It is important the Host and Database names do not change. 


 1. Select Database Aliases. For each Alias - map the alias to the Host / Database the connection references. 
    
    For example, if using an ODBC Stage in DS to connect to a DB System - that ODBC Reference is an Alias and MWB needs to interpret the actual Host / Database that it represents in the Information Server.
    
    
 2. Invoke the Automated Services from the MWB UI or CLI - not changing the list of selected projects.
    
    
 3. If necessary, set a DataSource Identity relationship from the Workbench. The Identity relationship maps two identical Database Schema's.
    
    For example. if the newly restored Database, or some of its Schema's or Tables, already exist in the Metadata Repository due to other import / usages (such as import of a BI Report, Profiling in IA), MWB requires the Schema's be mapped so that Lineage will reference both as one. 
    
    
 4. If necessary, create manual binding between the newly restored Host / Database - Table and Column objects - and the DS Stages which read or write to those Tables. Select Data Item Binding from the Workbench. 
    
    
 5. If Extended Data Lineage Mappings exist, which reference the Host / Database (Schema, Table, Column) objects - those mappings have been invalidated when the Host was deleted. The Mapping Document may be reconciled in the Workbench after the Host / Database has been restored to re-synchronize the mappings. 


Again, initially validate the user is able to browse and view the restored Host / Database. 
Secondly, if the Host / Database was part of Data Lineage follow the steps above.