Title: IBM MSG01 is rejected when it contains the same character as composite delimiter or ISA16 - United States

Text:
HIPAA; MSG01; composite delimiter; terminator; ISA16; 8.4 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In Websphere® Transformation Extender (WTX) 8.4.x, MSG01 element is a free form message text, but it is being rejected when it contains the same character as the composite delimiter or ISA16. The same data, maps, and HIPAA Pack tree supplied from versions prior to WTX 8.4.x work fine. 

SYMPTOM
Rejection of a free form message text element when it contains the same character as the composite delimiter or ISA16 when using HIPAA Pack tree supplied only in Websphere Transformation Extender 8.4.x.


CAUSE
With the introduction of Websphere Transformation Extender 8.4, a new flag was added to the type tree property that ensures that repetition and sub-element separated (exclude characters) are not located in the EDI data when they are not permitted. This is an X12 requirement/validation. This feature is not available in any version prior to WTX 8.4.x, so data that contains these characters will pass validation.

The HIPAA Pack trees delivered specifically for 8.4.x have the Exclude Character List set to disallow these syntax items in the data. Any tree that is delivered in a version prior to WTX 8.4.x, will not have this flag set and will thus allow the data to pass validation - even when opened up in 8.4. 

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Rejection of a free form message text element when it contains the same character as the composite delimiter or ISA16 when using HIPAA Pack tree supplied only in WTX 8.4.x.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
To have this data pass validation in WTX 8.4.x, remove the Syntax Items from the Exclude Character list in the type tree property. The MSG01 are in both Request and Response under V5010X217, Set, Partner, Inbound, #278, Transaction, so changes can be made to the type tree property in both Request and Response. Once changes have been made and saved to the type tree property, analyze, and save updated tree. Rerun map with updated tree, and data with MSG01 element containing the same character as the composite delimiter or ISA16, should now validate.

 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 Ascential DataStage TX