Title: IBM SDK How can the IBM Cognos Login / Logout pages be modified ? - United States

Text:
Login JSP ASP TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How can you customize the IBM Cognos ReportNet or Cognos BI login / logout pages, and make modifications ? 

ANSWER
This depends on the IBM Cognos BI version.
It is not possible, or with great difficulty, to Change or Modify the Logon / Logoff pages of IBM Cognos Reportnet, and any version below IBM Cognos 8.3.
For IBM Cognos 8.3 up to 8.4.1 it is possible to change or modify the Portal interface in the system XML files, but it will be considered not supported.

For IBM Cognos 10 , it is possible to use a customized Login Page, but the pages that appear after a logout, will be difficult to modify. For Cognos 10 , see the Administration and Security Guide for the solution in the Customization Section.

There are a couple of other options to change how things work, and provide a Custom logon / logout page experience for use with IBM Cognos BI overall.

Option 1 - Using the Software Development Kit (SDK).

This is one recommendation to customers, code to implement a Custom Logon / Logout Screen.
This method however does require extensive programming knowledge to ensure that Authentication User Recoverable, System Recoverable, and UnRecoverable errors thrown from the Authentication Source are handled correctly within this application.
When an invalid, or incorrect logon parameters are used, these Errors will happen, and by default the dispatcher of Cognos BI will put up its own logon page again. 
This action is not changeable or configurable in the older versions from IBM Cognos. 

In addition, Cognos Connection is setting the user Browser Environment, specifically the user preferences for the user. By using your own pages you will loose the functionality that Cognos Connection provides for the user environment. Consideration to the user environment needs to be given, to ensure that both the Logon / Logoff pages continue to work with IBM Cognos BI interfaces.
This then means that the client needs to write their own interface and pages, including managing the user browser environment, which is a large development effort.
There are some simple samples from the SDK that can be used as a starting point.

Option 2 - Using an Application Server.

More effective solution would be the use a supported Application Server, for example Websphere, Oracle Weblogic or the JBoss Application Server.
Using application servers gives the client the option of designing their own Portal in a supported environment to work with IBM Cognos BI.

Do note that the SDK can not be used to make changes to the appearance of the Cognos Connection Pages, nor to the Portal, Viewer and Studios.

Option 3 - Localization Development Kit (LDK) Option

This option is typically recommended for partners or OEM's who are making a large number of changes to the UI Messages that are language specific.
Changes with the LDK will not change any layouts or format of the pages, only the message strings that are there.
The LDK is a language localization development kit, and for the small change in the logon / logout you are looking to make, not recommended.
The LDK is a licensed product, and in IBM Cognos 10 is delivered via the SDK installation media. 

The Options 1 and 3 would require a Cognos BI SDK software component purchase, and customers should contact their Account Representatives if they do not have the product.

 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1017812