Title: IBM Modeler Client doesn't start when using concurrent licensing. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When you install Modeler Client v18.0, unlike previous versions, a temporary license gets installed automatically. The installation process no longer asks you whether you want to install an authorised user license or a concurrent user license. This process is done after restarting your computer and starting Modeler Client. This brings up a "Welcome to IBM SPSS Modeler" screen which gives you the opportunity to register a license using the "License Product" button. You will then be presented with another screen which gives you the choice between authorised and concurrent licensing. If you choose concurrent licensing, you will have to provide the IP or hostname/FQDN of your license server. After doing so, you could run into a known issue that the temporary license doesn't get disabled (see APAR PI60809 : Concurrent User Licensing never takes affect). However, after applying the workaround for APAR PI60809 (renaming your local lservrc file or editing it and putting the temporary license key in comments), your Modeler client no longer starts. Task Manager doesn't even show any ModelerClient.exe process becoming active. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
You might want to check the version of your Sentinel License Manager. If you regularly run the LM on UNIX/Linux, you will want to upgrade to SLM 8.6.1. This version of the "IBM Tools 9.6" has the same underlying version of the LM across platforms. In "IBM Tools 9.5.x.x" Windows had the latest versions (8.3 and 8.5) while Linux/UNIX/Mac were all capped at 8.2.x.x. "IBM Tools 9.6" has SLM 8.6.1.0021 for all platforms. When your LM is running version 8.2.x.x, you run into this issue. Using 8.5 should work, but it is recommended to install the latest IBM Tools 9.6.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Modeler forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/modeler/?smartspace=predictive-analytics]