Title: IBM How to configure two Active Directory LDAPs and authentication on Lotus Quickr - United States

Text:
Lotus Quickr services for Lotus Domino; MS AD; Microsoft Active Directory; two; 2; multiple TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
How can you configure two Microsoft Active Directories to provide LDAP authentication for IBM® Lotus® Quickr™ services for Lotus Domino®?

ANSWER
You can use the procedure below to set up this configuration. 

NOTE: This technote applies only if the two directories have the same schema and DN formatting. For example, you cannot use this setup if users in the two directories have different DNs, such as: 

 * 
 * 
 * 


Lotus Quickr cannot use both formats together; the Active Directories must have the same DN format. 

To enable use of two Microsoft Active Directory user directories:  * Set up to use Lotus Domino control of directory services (User Directory Type = Domino Server), instead of using Directory Type = LDAP Server. 
 * Set up Directory Assistance. Create two LDAP documents in Directory Assistance, one for each Active Directory. 
 * Each LDAP document points to one Active Directory Domain, with the following settings enabled: "Hostname", "Credential", "Base DN for search", " Authentication Filter" and "Authorization Filter"


Additionally, you can use an LDAP authentication filter in the Directory Assistance configuration to authenticate Active Directory users (and display the full user name) to Domino using the sAMAccountName LDAP attribute. Note that using a custom filter is simply an option. Using the"Active Directory" setting in Directory Assistance works fine as well. The examples given below might not work or be appropriate for all Active Directory environments. Many customers use custom attributes, in which case the examples would need to be changed to your settings. 

Using a Custom search filter in Directory Assistance with the following Authentication Filter:


 * 


The default Active Directory Authorization Filter should also be entered:  * 


Sample Directory Assistance document: 
[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21312960&amp;aid=1] 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Messaging Applications Lotus End of Support Products Lotus QuickPlace 7.0