Title: IBM How to find the owner of a schedule - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Lots of scheduled reports are failing with errors. All the scheduled reports are owned by one user. This user renews his credentials, still lots of schedules failing. Scheduled reports failing have owner of the schedule other than owner of the report. There is no straight way to find out the owner of the schedule. Property of the schedule shows the owner of the scheduled report not the owner of the schedule. 

SYMPTOM
CNC-SEC-3403 User account information invalid or missing in Content Manager. CAM-AAA-0146 The namespace 'PADS' is not available. CAM-AAA-0118 The trusted credentials contain an invalid password.


CAUSE
Password for the owner of the schedule has changed since report was scheduled. Owner of the schedule should renew the credentials not the owner of the report ( owner of the report should also renew the credentials if password for him is also changed to avoid same problem with other scheduled report).

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Find out who is the owner of the schedule and renew his/her credentials Steps:


User who created the schedule or edited the schedule becomes the owner of the schedule. Also confirm that schedule is not run as owner of the report. In this case schedule report will run under owner of the report, even if schedule was created by some other user. 

Confirm that schedule is not configured to run as owner of the report 

 1. Login to Cognos connection as Administrator. 
 2. Click on 'Tools' and 'Schedule Management', click on 'Report' tab. 
 3. Check if 'Run as the owner' check box is checked or not.


Find out Owner of the Schedule Use the 'Audit' package and create a report to confirm the owner of the schedule. If the audit database is not already configured , you have to configure it and can be used to find out the owner of future schedules. Schedules run before audit database is configured will not show up in this report. 

 1. Open a new list report with 'Audit' package. 
 2. Drag and drop 'Run Report ' query subject in the list and run the report. 
 3. Look for the 'User name' ,'Report name, 'Report Search Path' and 'Status' and try to match with the filed scheduled report and this will tell you who ran the scheduled report.


Once you have found out the owner of the schedule ask this user to renew the credentials 

 1. Login to Cognos connection. 
 2. Click on 'Tools' and choose 'My Preferences'. 
 3. Click on 'Personal Tab' and click on the link 'Renew my credentials'.