Title: IBM Limitation on Using Queries with Complex Data Types in Secondary Server of HDR Environment - United States

Text:
HDR; 626; 140 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This document explains the limitation when using queries involving complex data types like LIST, SET, MULTISET, named or unnamed ROW types in the secondary server of an HDR Environment. 

SYMPTOM
When running queries involving complex data types like LIST, SET, MULTISET, named or unnamed ROW in the secondary server in an HDR environment the following errors are generated: 

-626 Cannot obtain or set serial value. 

This internal error message does not refer to a problem with a SERIAL column in a table that you defined. The database server uses unique integer values for many purposes (for example, the table ID number for a new or altered table). An internal error has made it impossible to generate a new, unique number. For example, in host systems that use files for locking, something might have prevented the creation of a lock file. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information. 
If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact Technical Support at tsmail@us.ibm.com. 

-140 ISAM error: operation illegal on a DR secondary. 

A DR secondary server is meant for read-only operations. Any kind of write operation to a nontemporary dbspace is not allowed. For example, you cannot create a table in a regular dbspace, and you cannot do an insert, update, or delete operation on a table in a regular dbspace. 

Review your application logic and rewrite it to remove any operations that would write to a nontemporary dbspace. 

 

Example: 

 

If you run the following query in the Secondary HDR Server: 


select count(*) from table(multiset(select colname from syscolumns));
select * from table(multiset(select colname from syscolumns));

626: Cannot obtain or set serial value.
140: ISAM error: operation illegal on a DR Secondary


CAUSE
This is a limitation in HDR which is documented in the Release Notes. 

Link to Release Notes for 10x servers (a zip file): 

http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27039629&aid=1 [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27039629&aid=1]



ENVIRONMENT
The following products and operating systems are affected: 

 

Product Name Product Version(s) Hardware Vendor Operating System IBM Informix® Dynamic Server 10.00.x All All x can be T, U, H, or F depending on your operating system. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Running the query in the secondary server will try to create a transient type which will be writing in system catalog. As secondary is read-only it gives the 626/140 error. 

 
Run the same query on the Primary HDR Server first, and then on the Secondary HDR Server.

Running the query on the secondary will always work with no problem once the query is ran on the primary first. If the primary is re-started the query would need to be ran again. 

The users do not need to be the same in the primary and secondary for the query to begin working in the secondary.