Title: IBM Difference between build path and classpath - United States

Text:
RAD; eclipse; build path; classpath; class path TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What is the difference between build path and classpath in Rational Application Developer? 

ANSWER
Build path is used by the compiler to resolve dependencies and build a project. Classpath is used during runtime when running a project in order to find necessary dependencies. 
Build path is configured on the Java Build Path property page of a project. Classpath is configured on the Classpath tab of the Run Configurations dialog. 
Since the classpath does not exist initially in IDE, it gets created when running the project for the first time from IDE and it is initialized with the build path content. 
However, it can be changed later on to allow for more control over how the project will be launched regardless of how it is build. 
Build path is stored in a .classpath file inside a project, while classpath is stored as a parameter of run configuration which by default is not part of a project. 

If the default classpath for running the project does not do what you want, you can change that on the Classpath tab of the Run Configurations dialog. 

Please note that the default classpath does not take into consideration whether an entry is exported or not on the build path because usually all of the entries are required on the classpath in order to successfully run a project. This is by design and works as expected. If you want to use only exported entries of the build path to be used as the classpath, you need to go to the Run configuration dialog, switch to the Classpath tab, select the project under the User Entries section, click the Edit... button on the right and then enable the "Only include exported entries" option. This is an option of the run configuration, so either the run configuration will be shared in a project for all users, or every user will need to enable this option locally. 

 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Application Developer for WebSphere Software