Title: IBM Import of a Rational Rose model results in "Feature ... failed license check" error - United States

Text:
rmi; rose; import; license; license checking; feature; chargeable component; install; modify install; failed license check; rose model import TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Attempts to import an IBM Rational Rose model into IBM Rational Software Architect result in the error "Feature ... failed license check". 

SYMPTOM
The following steps reproduce the problem: 

 1. Open Rational Software Architect 
 2. Go to File > Import... > Modeling > Rational Rose Model 
 3. Follow the Import a Rose Model wizard to the end of the wizard by accepting all the default selections 
 4. Click the Finish button at the end of the wizard


Result: The Feature com.ibm.xtools.transform.uml2.cpp.feature, version
7.5.10.qualifier, failed license check error message appears and the Rational Rose model does not get imported into Rational Software Architect.

CAUSE
Rational Software Architect performs license checking during the Rose Model Import. 


If you have installed chargeable components, such as the Software Architect Extension for C++ component, to which the error here refers, you will need a license for these components.

If Rational Software Architect detects that there is no license for these components, the error message will result.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
To prevent the error, you can either: 

 * get a license for the chargeable components you have installed
   


OR 
 * uninstall the chargeable components with the following steps:  1. Close all IBM Rational products including Rational Software Architect
       
       
    2. Open IBM Rational Installation Manager
       
       
    3. Click Modify
       
       
    4. Click the package group where you have Rational Software Architect installed and follow the wizard to the Modify Packages--Select features to install or clear the features to remove screen
       
       
    5. Uncheck the features (such as Software Architect Extension for C++) that you do not need and click the Modify button
       
       
    6. Once the modified installation is complete, perform the Rose Model Import
   
   





Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Software Architect for WebSphere Software Modeling Windows 8.0.4