Title: IBM UAC Notification message when I start STAfS 3.0 in Windows Vista:"An unidentified program wants to access your computer". - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I have installed STAfS 3.0J has been installed on my Vista machine by an administrator. It is a company security prerequisite that the User Account Control (UAC) is turned on Vista PC's. My user account is a member of the User Group and not a member of the Administrators group. 

When I start STAfS 3.0 in Windows Vista, the following UAC prompt message displays "An unidentified program wants to access your computer", and it requests for an administrators account ID and password to be entered.

If I logon administrators account, I can use STAfS 3.0 without messages when I use User Account Control on Windows Vista.

However, if I logon non-administrators account, when I start STAfS 3.0, I get the message when I use User Account Control on Windows Vista. 

I don't encounter the message when I start STAfS 3.0, I can use STAfS 3.0 when the User Account Control (UAC)is turned off in Windows Vista.

Why can't non-administrators user start STAfS 3.0 when User Account Control (UAC)? 
I don't encounter this issue with other applications like Office etc.

What are the steps to resolve this elevated permissions issue? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Unchecking the "Run as Administrator" in the Compatibility tab of the STAS.exe for all users will resolve the UAC issue. Please see the details below

Please follow the steps below to when Installing STAfS 3.0J or other STAfS version on a Vista machine that is going to be run by normal users (without Administrator authority) where UAC is turned on.

Firstly, when initially installing STAfS 3.0 onto a Vista machine with UAC security enabled, Open the CD in windows explorer and right click on the setup.exe and select "Run as Administrator" to ensure you have the correct permissions when installing.

Once the application is installed please follow the steps below to disable the "Run as Administrator" property on the STAS.exe application:

1. Log in as the local Administrator or a profile that has administrative rights
2) Browse to the STAfS installation directory and find the "STAS.exe" executable.
3) Right click on this executable and view the Properties.
4) On the Compatibility tab, make sure "Run as Administrator" is not checked.
5) Also click on the "Show the settings for all Users" button with the security shield on it. In the new dialog that is displayed, make sure "Run as Administrator" is not checked.
6) On the Security tab, give the local Users security group full control of this executable.
7) Overall, give the local Users security group full control of the STAfS installation directory structure.
(Note: Alternatively, you could give the single user full control of the STAfS installation directory structure should that user be the only user who access the application, rather than the entire local Users security group.)

Now, login with the normal user account (non-admin or the user account that is only a member of the Users group) and STAfS will start up without encountering the UAC message



HISTORICAL NUMBER
 82099