Title: IBM Adding ITM V6.2.1 (or later) Unix/Linux based Agents to a TEMS agent depot may cause older Unix/Linux based Agents already in the depot to fail during remote deployment if both agents require the same version of JRE. - United States

Text:
remdeploy TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Adding ITM V6.2.1 (or later) Unix/Linux based Agents to a TEMS agent depot may cause older Unix/Linux based Agents already in the depot to fail during remote deployment if both agents require the same version of JRE. 

SYMPTOM
Depending on the order in which the agents were added to the TEMS agent depot, attempts to remote deploy the older pre-V6.2.1 Unix/Linux based agent may fail. 

If the newer Unix/Linux based agent was added last, the older agent remote deploy may fail with an error similar to the following:

Transaction ID : 1269964483745637000030415
Command : INSTALL
Status : FAILED
Retries : 3
TEMS Name : tems_southeast
Target Hostname: unixsystem51:KUX
Platform :
Product : PX
Version :
Error Message : KDY0002E: A Tivoli Enterprise Management Server error occurred while trying to complete the deployment request. The Tivoli Enterprise Management Server is not operational or not configured properly.


CAUSE
Older Unix/Linux based agents (V6.1.0 and V6.2.0) contain an embedded JRE packaged in the tar file format. In order to reduce the size of the agent installation images, Unix/Linux based agents (V6.2.1 and later) contain an embedded JRE packaged in compressed format (.ctp). The installer in the newer agents knows how to process both tar and compressed package formats while the installer in the older agents only knows how to process the tar format. If both agents happen to contain the same level of JRE, then the order in which the agents are added to the ITM depot will determine which JRE package is resident in the depot at the time of the deploy. 

Susceptible agents include but are not limited to:

KMQ - WebSphere MQ Monitoring Agent version 700


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Re-add the older pre-V6.2.1 Unix/Linux based agent to the agent depot and attempt the deployment again. If there is a 6.2.1 or later version of that Agent that is available, it would be best to add that newer version of the Agent to the agent depot.