Title: IBM KPI Refresh on Start Center - United States

Text:
KPI refresh automatically automatic live update maximo start center sc TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Updating a KPI automatically on the Start Center in Maximo 7.x. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The automatic refresh of Start Center is not currently available as Maximo feature. 

You can update KPIs included in the portlet on a real-time basis by clicking the update link toward the middle right-hand corner of the portlet. Executing an update re-runs all the KPIs contained in the portlet, refreshing the screen with up to the minute statistics. 

As workaround, the real time update can only be achieved by clicking the update button on the KPI manager itself. 

If you do not choose to do a real-time update of the KPIs, you can setup a cron task based on a defined time scale/schedule. This can be set from the Cron Task setup application. 

To refresh the KPI report you can enable the KPI Cron Task. You can activate the KPI Crontask by going to Configuration --> Cron Task setup --> KPI Crontask and put a tick in the 'Active' checkbox. 

Then you can schedule the time interval to run the Cron Task i.e every minute,hour, days etc. 

The server performs cron tasks a set number of times, following the schedule, without user interaction. 


To enable to KPI Cron Task - you will need to do the following: 

1) Go To - Configuration - Cron Task Setup - Filter for KPICronTask within Cron Task Setup - Set the KPINONREALTIME to Active and set the schedule to run at a predetermined time. (For example - once every 5 minutes - or 30 minutes or 1 hour or 6 hours, etc) 

When the KPICronTask is set to run - it will run within the Scheduled time - then when a User accesses the Start Center - the KPI will be updated. 

The KPI Cron Task will not update the KPI's on the Start Center automatically. The User will have to navigate back to the Start Center to see the updated the KPI if the User is within the Start Center when the KPI Cron runs. For example - A User logs into the System and is at the Start Center. KPI Is at 160. At the time when the User is at the Start Center - the KPI Cron Task Runs. The User will have to navigate from the Start Center - to another application - then back to the Start Center to see the Updated KPI Number. 

Enhancement request has already been created for that : MR0820104458 

Within Maximo 6 and Maximo 7, you do not have the ability for the Start Centers to automatically update the KPI's and Result Sets in real time without having to click on the 'Update' hyperlink.

Should you need any assistance, please contact IBM Maximo Support.