Title: IBM Information Server Designer client: the Find dependencies (deep) option produces a “System.Exception” error - United States

Text:
ds85relnotes is8501relnotes TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 When using Advanced Find to find all dependencies using the "Find dependencies (deep)" option, an error is produced. The error is caused by the deep find running out of memory, but the User Interface reports a more general error. 

SYMPTOM
When using the “Find dependencies (deep)” option in the Advanced Find window for jobs or sequences, the following intermittent error message occurs: 

“An error occurred when performing the query: Failure in repository access interface. Exception of type ‘System.Exception’ was thrown.”

CAUSE
The failure is caused because there is insufficient memory allocated on the domain machine to the JVM running in WebSphere Application Server (WAS). 


This situation can be seen by reviewing the ds_logs and searching for exceptions of type ImpactAnalysisException that contain the following message text:

“There is not enough available memory for the Impact Analysis operation to continue. Please increase the available memory or retry when the work load for the system has decreased.”


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Increasing the maximum heap size should resolve the problem as the “Find dependencies (deep)” option is very memory intensive. Complete these steps to increase the maximum heap size: 


1. Open a web browser to the “WAS Administrative console” i.e. http://<servername>:9060/ibm/console

2. On the welcome screen, select Server > Server Types > WebSphere Application Servers.

3. Choose “server1” to view the application server configuration settings.

4. Open the collapsible section “Server Infrastructure”, and select Process Definition > Java Virtual Machine.

5. There will be two text boxes shown (amongst other settings) labelled “Initial heap size” and “Maximum heap size” in megabytes. Increase the maximum heap size to 1400 – 1536, or more until the error no longer occurs.

Alternatively, use the“Find dependencies" option to find dependencies, as it is less memory intensive.