Title: IBM Maximum character length and nesting levels for views and folders - United States

Text:
limitations of notes folders; how many nested folders; at most; limit; limitation; ceiling; minimum; maximum; the most; Domino Designer; Desktop; max folders; maximum folders; how many folders can be displayed?; how many folders can be viewed?; Unable to scroll beyond 150 folders in a mail file; User has over 1000 folders (and sub-folders) in his database and is unable to scroll down and view all of them with the Notes client; cannot scroll down to folder; cannot get to folder; cannot get to folder in navigator pane; cannot get to folder in left pane; can't scroll down to folder; can't get to folder; folder list is so long you cannot scroll to it; 191504; 179434; limitations of notes folders TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
What is the maximum number of characters for a view or folder name? How many nested levels can a view or folder have? How many views or folders can a database have?

ANSWER

The maximum number of characters a view or folder can have is 64. 


There is not a limit on the number of nested levels, but there is a limit on the total length of characters to a view's farthest descendent. The total number of characters from a parent view or folder to its farthest descendent child cannot be greater than 130 characters. The 130 character limit number includes a backslash character for each parent child level. In the example below the view Parent, with its descendants, has a length of 27 characters:


 * 
 * 
 * 
 * 


The total number of views and folders that can display in the navigation pane on the left side of the screen can vary depending on the fonts used to display their names, as well as other factors in the pane's design. If the number of views and folders in a database is so great that you cannot easily navigate to the desired view of folder then you can use the 'View > Go To' menu option to open to the desired view or folder. 

You are able to create more than 200 cascaded views or folders. The number you can create is not specific, but rather is dependent upon: 

1. the maximum number of characters a view or folder name can have (64), and 
2. the Notes release's limit for the number of views or folders allowed. 

The maximum number of views or folders allowed is discussed in the related documents referenced below. 

Note: The Notes Client Help (5.x and later) includes in its document titled "Limits of Notes" the following limit for cascading views: 

How many cascading views are allowed in a database?: 200 


The fact that the above help entry is incorrect has been reported to Quality Engineering as SPR# MGAN6QTT2L. 

SPR# WVHM652EW3 contains a request to handle long folder/view names or sub-folders using the horizontal scroll bar in left mail frameset navigator pane. Result still reproduced in Notes 8.5. 



Supporting Information: 

Help in 6.x, 7.x and 8.x: 

The Designer Help entry (Contents > Application Design > Designing Views > Naming a View or Folder) indicates the flowing among the items in its list of Naming Tips: 
 * The name is case-sensitive and can be any combination of characters, including letters, numbers, spaces, and punctuation. 
 * The full name, including all aliases, can have up to 64 characters.


Help in R5: 

Although the help file does not specifically state the folders have the same name limits as a view it does state, "Folders have the same design elements as views." 

From the Domino R5 Designer help: 

Naming a view 
The name you choose for a view is visible to Notes users in the View menu and in the folders pane (unless the view is hidden). The view name is visible to Web users in the Views list. The name is case-sensitive and can be any combination of characters, including letters, numbers, spaces, and punctuation. The full name, including all aliases, can have up to 64 characters.  

Help in R4:

For more information on limits in Notes R4, refer to the "About Notes Limits" document in the Notes R4 Help database. To access the "About Notes Limits" document from the Index view of the Notes Help database, type "Limits". The view will migrate to the "Limits" category. Expand "Limits" and then expand "Design."

RELATED INFORMATION
 A simplified Chinese translation is available [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21602700]




Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Messaging Applications IBM Domino Designer Not Applicable 8.0, 7.0, 6.5, 6.0 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 140947