Title: IBM Deployment Descriptor is required - errror message appears when changing the classloader policy in Administrative Console - United States

Text:
Classloader policy; Administration Console; Admin Console; change to policy; pmr 2983749R000; pmr 79803379000; WSAD; WSSD; RAD; RSA; RWD; 1160465 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In WebSphere® Studio Application Developer (WSAD), when you are attempting to change the classloader policy in Administrative Console from PARENT_FIRST to PARENT_LAST, this error might appear: 
Deployment Descriptor is required. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
To avoid the "Deployment Descriptor is required" error, make your changes to the classloader policy in the WebSphere® Test Environment (WTE) 5.x server configuration as opposed to making these changes in the Administrative Console. To make such changes in the WTE server configuration, do the following steps: 

 1. Create a server and server configuration. Add the enterprise application (EAR) project to the server. 
 2. In Navigator view, expand the server project. 
 3. Double-click the WebSphere server instance. The WebSphere server instance has an extension of .wsi for local WebSphere Server Instances, or .wrsi for remote WebSphere Server Instances. 
 4. Click the Applications tab. 
 5. In the Applications option box, select the enterprise application. 
 6. Make the appropriate changes to the classloader in the Classloader mode field.


Changes to the classloader mode are seen in deployment.xml.  To navigate to thedeployment.xml do the following steps: 

 1. Expand the server project folder in Navigator View. 
 2. Expand the server configuration.wsc folder. 
 3. Click cells > localhost > applications. 
 4. Expand the enterprise application.ear folder. 
 5. Expand the deployments folder. 
 6. Expand the enterprise application folder. 
 7. Double click the deployment.xml file.


The following example illustrates this change in the deployment.xml: 

<classloader xmi:id="Classloader_1" mode="PARENT_LAST"/> 









Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Integration WebSphere Studio Application Developer Integration Edition Server Windows, Linux 5.0.1 All Editions Software Development Rational Application Developer for WebSphere Software Integrated WebSphere Test Environment Windows, Linux 6.0, 6.0.0.1, 6.0.1.0, 6.0.1.1 Software Development Rational Software Architect - Linux, Windows Software Development Rational Software Architect -