Title: IBM Installation of IBM Stewardship Center on IBM Business Process Manager Process Server 8.5.5/8.5.6 fails due to mismatch of Snapshot acronyms set in MDMBPMIntegration.properties - United States

Text:
[KickstartTemplateField]mdmrnv114; mdm11.4.0.3 fix pack TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 While installing IBM Stewardship Center on BPM Process Server 8.5.5 or 8.5.6, using installation scripts, the creation of install packages for process server fails and Stewardship center does not get deployed on Process Server. This happens occasionally during installation of stewardship center on Process Server environment and not on Process Center environment. 

SYMPTOM
During Stewardship center installation on offline Process Server, the script that creates offline packages fails with the following error: 

Creating offline package...
Unexpected error: com.ibm.ws.scripting.ScriptingException: java.lang.Exception: java.lang.Exception: Could not find the snapshot with acronym: 

Failure may happen during installation of Stewardship center on Process server in online mode also.



CAUSE
The cause of this issue is due to the manner in which BPM Process Center handles the snapshot acronyms while importing process applications. The Stewardship center install scripts use the snapshot acronym names with which the applications are originally exported. While importing these snapshots into an environment that has a conflicting snapshot acronym name, the target Process Center environment generates a new acronym name that will not match the one used by the install scripts.


ENVIRONMENT
IBM Business Process Manager-Process Server Version 8.5.5/8.5.6



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Follow this workaround if the installation of Stewardship Center fails due to snapshot acronym mismatch. 

1. Open the Process Center Console of BPM Process Center environment to which the applications were imported.
2. Verify the snapshot acronyms match with the snapshot acronyms specified for the following properties in MDMBPMIntegration.properties file. The file can be located at \DataStewardshipAndGovernance\mdmg\install\properties in the directory where the Stewardship Center installable have been extracted. 
3. The acronym can be seen from the Process Center console from the imported applications.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Product documentation - Knowledge Center [http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSWSR9_11.4.0]






Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Information Management Initiate Master Data Service Information Management InfoSphere Master Data Management Server Information Management InfoSphere Master Data Management Server for Product Information Management