Title: IBM Variable file still applying field delimiters when none are being specified - United States

Text:
field delimiters VAR source node Modeler row variable file TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In Modeler 14.2 if you don't specify field delimeters, all your records would appear as one line. In Modeler 15 if you don't specify field delimiters, records are still broken into separate lines. 

SYMPTOM
In Modeler 14.2 if you don't specify field delimeters, all your records would appear as one line. In Modeler 15 if you don't specify field delimiters, records are still broken into separate lines.


CAUSE
I reviewed Modeler 14.2 (just using a VAR source note and Druglearn demo data) if I uncheck all field delimiters and preview my data, all the records are presented in one line. If I do the same think in Modeler 15.0 records are broken out to separate rows. Was there a reason for the change?

ENVIRONMENT
Windows

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Unchecking field delimiters should present records in one row of data instead each record is presented in a separate row as if I had field delimiters specified.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
There was a change in 15 to make Modeler's flat file parsing more flexible when a delimited text file had inconsistent numbers of delimiters in the rows. This was a commonly requested enhancement to Modeler. It also makes it consistent with applications such as SPSS Statistics and Excel in this regard. Modeler 15 and above breaks rows on a newline to do this (just as these other applications do). In your example field delimeters are not being applied (it is all one field), but the newline character in the source file is being used as a row delimiter.

If you want to read data into a single row as shown in the .docx you can do so with the fixed file import node in Modeler 15, or remove the newlines (CRLF on Windows) from the file in something like Notepad++ before importing with the varfile node.


RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Modeler forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/modeler/?smartspace=predictive-analytics]