Title: IBM System Error occurs when attempting Workplace XT login - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 System Error reported when a user attempts login with Workplace XT 

CAUSE
Login problems for Workplace XT are commonly authorization problems, or authentication problems. 
Authorization is handled by the Application Server, and any error messages indicating an authentication problem would typically be contained in the log files of the Application Server. Authorization on the other hand, is handled by the Content Engine, and can typically be diagnosed by enabling security traces on the Content Engine. 

One common cause for Workplace XT login problems is that users do not have access to the Object Store which was configured to store the Access Roles and Preferences for Workplace XT. The documentation refers to the fact that the Object Store needs to be accessible to users; see the link to "Setting the bootstrap properties on first login" below. 

If access to the Object Store is not configured correctly when the Object Store is created, it cannot be fixed by modifying security at the Object Store level only, as the security will not be set up correctly on many other entities in the Object Store.


DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Review the log files of the Application Server on which Workplace XT is running. If the error messages include user names, then the problem is probably an authentication issue, so the Application Server administrator should be informed. 

If access to the Object Store is not configured correctly when the Object Store is created, it does NOT generate any errors in the Content Engine logs. 



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Determine which Object Store is used to store the preferences for this Workplace XT installation. The information can be found in the file "bootstrap.properties", which is maintained in the Shared Configuration directory, specified upon installation of Workplace XT. The line looks as follows:
objectStoreId=<object store name> 

Check the security settings on the Object Store. It needs to contains an Access Control Entry for a group containing the intended users of Workplace XT, for the access level "Use Object Store". 

If the Object Store does not have the required security setting, the issue can NOT be fixed by adding the missing entry on the Object Store security only, because the required security would be missing on many other entities on the Object Store. The best strategy would be to recreate the same Object Store, or create a new one. If this is not possible, an alternative might be to use the Object Store Security Script Wizard; see link below.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Setting the bootstrap properties on first login [http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSNW2F_5.2.1/com.ibm.p8.install.doc/p8pin135.htm]
Security Script Wizard [http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSNW2F_5.2.1/com.ibm.p8.ce.admin.tasks.doc/securityeditor/emsec_ssw_about.htm]