Title: IBM TWS user password change on Windows operating system - United States

Text:
tws; windows; password; token service; workload scheduler; change; altpass TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What is the impact of and what procedure is needed to plan for a Tivoli Workload Scheduler (TWS) instance owner's password change on the Windows platform? 

CAUSE
Security requirements.

ANSWER
When changing the password for the TWS instance owner, there are three areas that need to be updated.

1. Change the password for the TWS user in the TWS database using composer, JSC, ore Tivoli Dynamic Workload Console (TDWC). 

2. Change the password in the current Symphony file using the conman "altpass" command.

From Technote # 1139509 [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21139509]:

"...If the password change was made during the production day, it is not updated in the Symphony file before the start of day. The altpass command must then be used to update the Symphony file with the new password temporarily until the start of day processing picks up the new password permanently.

The command is as follows:
conman
%altpass cpu#username;"password"

altpass
Alters the password of a user object in the current production plan...."

If the password on the Windows OS is different than what is in the Symphony file for that user then jobs being submitted for that streamlogon user will go to the FAIL state.

3. Consider the TWS services in Windows: 

a. The TWS Fault Tolerant Agent (FTA) continues to function after a change of the TWS instance owner's password. The TWS Engine and scheduling will continue to function as normal until the FTA needs to be completely stopped and started. 

NOTE: A complete stop and start is not done with the FINAL schedule.

b. If for some reason (such as a reboot or update to localopts) the FTA needs to be completely stopped and started, the following services need to have their logon password updated to restart successfully.

o Tivoli Workload Scheduler (for twsUser)
o Tivoli Token Service (for twsUser)

After the logon password is updated and the above services are stopped and restarted, the TWS engine will perform as expected.

 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 Maestro
TWS
TWA