Title: IBM Error 'DBConv - Provider cannot be found. It may not be properly installed' when trying to 'Run Step - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Issue#1: Administrator launches Controller Configuration, and runs the Database Conversion Utility. They then attempt to run the Database Conversion Utility (DbConv), so that they can use Run Steps, but instead they receive an error.
Issue#2: Superuser attempts to verify a database connection by double-click on the relevant UDL file inside the folder 'C:\Program Files\cognos\c8\data', but receives an error message. 

SYMPTOM
Issue#1: 

 
DBConv
Provider cannot be found. It may not be properly installed.

Issue#2:

Microsoft Data Link
Provider cannot be found. Ensure that the provider has been installed properly.
OK



CAUSE
Administrator has chosen the incorrect value for the 'provider' setting for their database connection, or the provider does not exist because it has not been installed on the application server. 

 * For example, if using SQL 2000 the administrator may have chosen the provider 'SQLNCI.1' instead of 'SQLOLEDB.1' which comes as part of the operating system.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Change the provider name to one that has been installed on the application server. 

 * For example, you could use 'SQLOLEDB.1' for SQL 2000/2005, since this is installed by default on Windows. 
 * and 'OraOLEDB.Oracle.1' for Oracle 9i/10G.


NOTE: If you are using Oracle as your database repository, you will need to install the Oracle 9i release 2 client or Oracle 10G release 2 client (depending on the version of Oracle server that you are using) on the Controller application server before this reconfiguration.  * For Oracle 9i, you should install client version 9.2.0.1, and patch to the latest Oracle-recommended patch level afterwards (9.2.0.7 as a minimum) 
 * For Oracle 10G, you should install Oracle Database 10g Client Release 2 (10.2.0.1.0), and ideally patch to latest Oracle-recommended patch level afterwards. Steps:


Steps:  1. Logon to the Controller application server as an administrator 
 2. Launch Controller Configuration from the Start Menu 
 3. Expand 'Database Connections' and locate the appropriate one 
 4. Change the value of the 'Provider' to either SQLOLEDB.1' or 'OraOLEDB.Oracle.1' (as appropriate). 



HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1034355