Title: IBM Discovery Export from Desktop - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do I run a discovery export from data that was harvested from a Desktop 

ANSWER
This document assumes a StoredIQ environment is already standing.
Before harvesting, there’s some logical setup that will need to be completed. Since desktops contain all kinds of file types, and most of them are useless, then either file type of location scoping should be performed. This can be done under configuration->harvester settings or it can be done under the volume details once the desktop volume is created. Consider excluding entire directories, like c:\windows which is prone to cause indexing issues. 

Log into the source desktop with administrative privileges. 

Use your browser to navigate to the StoredIQ Data Server and login. Under configuration->Desktop Settings click on the “Download the desktop client installer” link. 

During the install, enter the IP address of the Data Server in the “Data Server or Action Node Address:” field. And leave the port field as the default. 

Go back to the browser and navigate to the “Folder” tab. 

Click New->Job. Enter a name for the Job and click “Ok” then “Yes”. Click Add Step->Run Harvest. From the dropdown, select the entry for your desktop. It should start with the computer name. Verify the job is set to incremental and harvest and load indexes then click “Ok”. Click Start Job and monitor it from the dashboard. 

Once the Harvest Job is complete. Log on to the Appstack and create a System infoset which points to the desktop volume by selecting the system infosets tab on the Administrator page. 

Click create infoset. Then enter a name for the infoset and select the desktop volume from the bottom right pane and click add, then save. 

Now on the Data Workbench page, select the infoset you just created from the drop down and click the “create” tab. You can either select a previous filter or create a new one based on your needs. Select the filter from the library tab and click create new infoset. Enter a name and click save. 

While the User Infoset is pending, create a target set (export volume) by going back to the Administrator page and selecting the Dataservers and volumes tab. 

Click on the All Volumes tab and click Add Volume. Set the type to Discovery Export and fill out the rest of this page based on the environment. 

Click the target sets tab on the Administrator page and click create set. From the “type of target set” drop down, select Discovery export. Click add data server on the right and select the data server where the discovery export volume was just added. Then from the drop down, select the volume itself. Fill in a Target Set name and click save. 

Now create an action under the action tab of the Administrator tab 

Fill in an action name and select discovery export from the drop down. (DAT or EDRMXML depending on your needs) And select the target set you just created then click next. Fill in this page based on your environment and click save. 

Now go back to the Data Workbench and select your user infoset as it should now be complete. 

Click the Act tab and select the action which was just created and click Run. 

The execution log under the details tab of the infoset can be monitored to see when the action is complete. Once it is, your discovery export is ready on the target set directory.