Title: IBM Selfcare portlet requires current password when updating user profile information - United States

Text:
selfcare; profile; management; edit; my; profile; password TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 IBM WebSphere Portal is successfully installed and configured. When attempting to update a user's data in the Selfcare portlet on the Edit my Profile page the portlet requires the user to input their current password when updating profile information. This Technote will describe why this behavior occurs. 

CAUSE
The Selfcare portlet had a design change between Portal 6.1 and Portal 7.0. Users are now required to input their current password when updating their profiles in the Selfcare portlet. For WebSphere Portal 7.0 and later the Selfcare portlet is working as designed to require the current password of the user when updating a user's profiles. 

There are no current plans to change this design of the Selfcare portlet. Please contact your IBM Sales Representative [http://www.ibm.com/connect/ibm/us/en/] if you would like to see a design change implemented in a future release of WebSphere Portal. Reference this Technote Number (#1599510) when submitting the feature request. An alternative solution is available and noted in the Resolving the Problem section.


ENVIRONMENT
Any WebSphere Portal 7.0, 8.0 or 8.5 environment.



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The new design only applies to the Selfcare portlet itself. The underlying Portal User Management Architecture (PUMA) and Virtual Member Manager (VMM) layers do not require the password to be included when updating a user's attributes in their profiles. Therefore, it is possible for portlet developers to author a customized Selfcare portlet utilizing the PUMA API that would perform the same functionality as the IBM provided Selfcare portlet. This would also allow a design change such that user's would not be required to input their current password when updating their profile information. 


A more detailed explanation of PUMA API is available at the end of this document under the link titled "Portal User Management Architecture (PUMA) sample scenarios in IBM WebSphere Portal".

RELATED INFORMATION
 PUMA sample scenarios [http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/websphere/zones/portal/proddoc/dw-w-pumascenarios/index.html]


 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Organizational Productivity- Portals & Collaboration WebSphere Portal AIX, HP-UX, IBM i, Linux, Solaris, Windows, z/OS 7.0, 6.1