Title: IBM WebSphere Portlet Factory logging within projects in development and deployment environments - United States

Text:
logging; diagnostics; tracing; throttling; troubleshooting TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
How do you enable and disable different levels of logging within WebSphere Portlet Factory?

CAUSE
Need to provide additional logging to observer behavior of WebSphere Portlet Factory during design and deployment.

ANSWER
Logging can be influenced by several mechanisms, both within the development environment, as well as once your project is deployed to your run-time application server environment (for example, to WebSphere Portal). 


Logging is controlled by the parameters in two files (log4j.properties and logging.properties) in your Portlet Factory project. Those same files control logging in the run-time environment when the project is deployed. Both files contain comments describing the parameters, types, and levels of logging that can be enabled. In log4j.properties, for example, logging severity levels have the following hierarchy (taken from the Log4J documentation): DEBUG < INFO < WARN < ERROR < FATAL; DEBUG will enable all messages, ERROR will enable just ERROR and FATAL, etc.

Although it is possible to change parameter values within the files themselves, for parameters in logging.properties the best practice is to manually create a file named "override.properties" in the same directory and place the parameters you wish to modify into this file. Note that this override mechanism only works for Portlet Factory property files such as logging.properties; log4j.properties is owned and read directly by Log4J .

As an example of using the override mechanism, you would create the override.properties file and copy relevant parameters from logging.properties into override.properties. Then you would change the logging parameters in override.properties as needed for your project. When your project is deployed Portlet Factory logging will use the override properties you have defined. Note that override.properties must always be placed in the WEB-INF/config folder of your project.

Portlet Factory logs are written to the SystemOut.log file located in the Portal server's log folder, as well as to log files in the WEB-INF/logs folder of the deployed WAR.

For additional information related to logging, refer to the following technote: "MustGather: WebSphere Portlet Factory version 6.0.x" [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?rs=899&uid=swg21270926] on the WebSphere Portlet Factory Support Web site.