Title: IBM How do the Confirmation Reminders, Auto-reminder, and Exception Alerts work? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do the Confirmation Reminders, Auto-reminder, and Exception Alerts work? 

ANSWER
That application keeps a record of all Notices sent, including all Reminders sent. The different types of Reminders are highlighted below. Each Reminder sent is shown in the "Notices Sent" section of the Hold Notice. Details of the responses by Recipients can be viewed by clicking on the number links within this section. Auto-reminders When set, Auto-reminders are sent to all recipients as a periodic reminder of their legal preservation obligation. The Auto-reminder is essentially an exact copy of the original Hold Notice and will require recipients to confirm if confirmation is required. Typically, Auto-reminders are configured to be sent every 3 to 6 months. The Auto-reminder timing is based upon when the Original Notice was sent out. If a recipient is added to a notice after the original, they will still receive the Auto-Reminder based upon the Original. Confirmation Reminder The Confirmation Reminders are used if confirmation is required for the Hold Notice. Typically you will configure a Hold Notice so that Recipients are required to confirm whether or not they understand their legal obligation within a certain time. The Reminder will be sent to Recipients who fail to respond after the initial period of time and the application will continue sending these Reminders until they respond. You can configure the Confirmation Reminders to either resend the Hold Notice and or send an Escalation Alert to the Recipient's manager. Once a Recipient responds to a Hold Notice they will stop receiving Confirmation Reminders. For each Auto-reminder sent for a notice that requires confirmation, recipients will need to respond to the Auto-Reminder. This means Confirmation Reminders will be sent again to Recipients who fail to respond within the specified period of time to the Auto-Reminder. In Atlas 3.x, the Confirmation-reminder timing is based upon the Original Notice, regardless of when the recipient was added to the notice. In Atlas 4.0 and above, the Confirmation-reminder timing is based upon when a recipient most recently received a notice (including an Auto-Reminder, not when the Original Notice was sent out. So if a recipient is added to a notice after the original, they will receive Confirmation Reminders based upon when they were added to the notice. Exception Alerts If a Recipient does not reply to the Hold Notice, or replies but does not confirm the legal obligation, or if there is a transmission error an Alert will be generated by the application. A separate Alert will be generated for each Hold Notice Recipient that triggers an exception. The timing of the Exception Alerts is the same as that of the Confirmation Reminders.



HISTORICAL NUMBER
 292