Title: IBM Migration to Rational Rhapsody 7.6.0.1 - United States

Text:
migration; migrating; upgrade; upgrading; rhapsody 7.6.0.1; rhapsody 7601; 7.6.0.1; 7601; v7.6.0.1 PRODUCT DOCUMENTATION

ABSTRACT
 This document contains information regarding migrating existing models to Rational Rhapsody 7.6.0.1. 

CONTENT





Using Rational Rhapsody with Rational Rhapsody Design Manager 


If you plan to use Rational Rhapsody 7.6.0.1 with Rational Rhapsody Design Manager, you must install version 3.0.0.1 of Rational Rhapsody Design Manager. 


Using the Parametric Constraint Evaluator (PCE) with Matlab 


Beginning in version 7.6.0.1, there is no need to perform the path setup procedure in Matlab in order to use it with the PCE. Therefore, Rational Rhapsody no longer displays the instructions dialog. 


Code generation when using the AR3x_BMT profile 


Beginning in version 7.6.0.1, the signatures of the sender/receiver/caller/handler functions are generated differently than they were previously. The argument declarations of these functions are now taken from the values of the In, Out, and InOut properties for the argument type. 


C++ code generation - improved MISRA compliance 


As a result of the effort to improve MISRA compliance of C++ code generated by Rational Rhapsody, you might find changes in the code generated for your model if the code generated previously included code where the right hand operand of a logical && or || operator contained side effects. 


DDS profile 


In release 7.6.0.1, changes were made to the "topic" and "topicStruct" stereotypes in the DDS profile, in terms of which elements they can be applied to. If you open an older model in 7.6.0.1 and generate code, Rational Rhapsody checks for the use of these stereotypes and flags any such use as a Check Model error. To automatically update your model for these changes, select the model conversion menu item that is included in the pop-up menu for DDS projects. 


Log files - default filenames 


In release 7.6.0.1, the logging feature was enhanced to allow the inclusion of a number of variables in the names of log files, for example, the date or process ID. By default, the names of the log files created by Rational Rhapsody now include the process ID as part of the name. This means you will end up with multiple log files for each type of log file created by Rational Rhapsody, rather than a single file for each type, as was the case before this release. If you do not want the filenames to include the process ID, modify the values of the fileHandler.fileName variables in the file [installation directory]\Share\Log\rhapsody.properties.