Title: IBM Optimizing data extraction from Essbase using IBM Cognos Integration Server Sparse Discovery - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Optimizing data extraction from Essbase using IBM Cognos Integration Server Sparse Discovery 

ANSWER
Overview: 

Multi-dimensional databases are typically sparsely populated. Only a small fraction of all possible intersection points have any data. Extracting data from a multi-dimensional database often results in extracting data from empty space.

 The CIS Sparse Discovery mechanism reduces the number of empty extractions, thereby reducing the overall extraction time. 

Sparse Discovery Details:

 The dimensions of multi-dimensional databases are normally aggregated. e.g. sales figures from each month are aggregated into quarterly figures that again are aggregated into yearly figures. Sales figures may be reported by city and aggregated into regional figures that again may be aggregated into figures for each country. 

Using the example above, because of the aggregation, we know that if there are no quarterly sales figures for a city, there are no sales figures for each month of that quarter for the city. In this case, the quarterly sales figures are the top member of the monthly sales figures.

 CIS Sparse Discovery finds the top members of a given selection of members from each dimension and determines if there is any data below each top member. If there isn't, the selected members below the top member are skipped. In many cases, this will significantly reduce the number of intersections that CIS extracts data from. 

Level 0 Optimization:

 In the case where Level 0 members have been selected but no top members above them have been selected, the Level 0 Optimization will artificially insert the top members, use the top members to determine is there is any data below them, and remove the inserted top members again. 

Level 0 Optimization should always be enabled if Level 0 members are selected. It can be left on in most situations.

 When Not to Use Sparse Discovery: 

Sparse Discovery does take some time to perform. For very small extractions the overhead of Sparse Discovery may outweigh the benefits.

 Sparse Discovery relies upon the outline being consolidated. If it isn't, Sparse Discovery may remove members that have data which hasn't been aggregated up, and the data extraction will return less data than there actually is. 

Some Essbase outlines may contain members that are not aggregated upwards. CIS Sparse Discovery treats those members as special cases. They cannot be eliminated and will be treated as top members no matter where they are in the outline. The more a selection of members selects non-aggregating members, the longer the Sparse Discovery will take. If you know that most of your selection contains data, Sparse Discovery should be turned off.



HISTORICAL NUMBER
 2641