Title: IBM SPSS has been installed but cannot be configured for this user - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I have SPSS for Windows installed on a Windows 2000/XP/Vista operating system. If I try to launch it, I receive an error that reports the following:

'SPSS for Windows has been installed but cannot be configured for this user.'

If I create a new profile, then SPSS works fine but still will not work under the first user profile. What is happening and is there a way that I can have SPSS work under my first user profile? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Perform the following steps: 

SPSS may be set to run under one of the compatibility modes. 
Locate your SPSS Statistics program icon. (Usually found by selecting Start and Programs/All Programs and locating the SPSS program folder.)
Right-click the SPSS Statistics program menu entry.
Select Properties (menu).
Select Compatibility (tab).
If "Run this program in compatibility mode for" is selected, remove the check-mark in the selection box.
Locate the area labeled 'Privilege Level'.
Locate the dialog check-box locate 'Run this program as an administrator' (if available).
Select (place a check-mark in) 'Run this program as an administrator' (if available).
Select Apply (button).
Select 'Show settings for all users' (button).
If "Run this program in compatibility mode for" is selected, remove the check-mark in the selection box.
Under the area labeled 'Privilege Level', locate 'Run this program as an administrator' (if available).
Select (place a check-mark in) 'Run this program as an administrator' (if available).
Select Apply (button).
Select OK (button).
Select OK (button).
The Properties window should now close.
Start your SPSS program.
If (1) the error persists and (2) your computer uses the Microsoft Windows Vista operating system, please follow the steps below:

1. Log onto the machine as an Administrator.
2. Right click the SPSS directory, select "Properties", and choose the "Security" tab.
3. Click the "Advanced" button and select the "Owner" tab.
4. Choose "Edit". Please select "Continue" when the security alert appears.
5. Double-click the group to which your user account belongs (for example, 'Administrators').
6. Select the Apply button.
7. Select OK.
8. Select OK.
9. The Properties window should now close. 
Start your SPSS Statistics program

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 42807