Title: IBM How to backup and restore BIRT and Cognos reports on TCR? - United States

Text:
cognos birt reports backup export import TCR how package TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 There is no documentation about how to perform backup and restore of BIRT and Cognos reports definition on TCR. Is a common procedure available ? If not, how can TCR reports be backed up? 

ANSWER
There is no common procedure to perform backup and restore of BIRT and Cognos reports on TCR. 

A backup procedure is available to perform the backup of the content store, but if you are interested to perform only a backup of the reports' definitions, you need to use separate steps. 

1) BIRT reports: you can use command "trcmd -export" like in this example : 

 trcmd -export -bulk <output package file> -reportSets <targetReportSet to be exported> 

This command can be scheduled to be executed periodically, using cron or other scheduling tools.
In the same way, you can use trcmd -import to re-import the package previously backed up;

Note: trcmd -export command only works on TCR V1.3 and older releases.
On most recent TCR versions, it is not supported and cannot be used to export BIRT reports.


2) Cognos reports: you can use the TIP console to define a new Content Administration item, as suggested in the TCR User's Guide:
a. Open the Tivoli Integrated Portal console and select Launch --> Administration. b. Go to the Configuration tab and select Content Administration. 
c. Create new package export by clicking the "new export" icon 
d. Provide all the necessary options (Deployment archive and Directory Content options)

Once defined, the exported package can be executed manually by clicking on the "Run with options" (green arrow) icon.
Or, you can define a schedule to run the task periodically, as you do usually for report execution.
The exported packages are created in the following directory
<...>\tipv2Components\TCRcomponents\cognos\deployment

If you need to re-import a previously exported package, you can define a new "Import" task by clicking on the "New Import" icon.
The TIP will show a list of packages that can be imported. These packages are the files present in the deployment file location mentioned above.
If you moved your backed up package files in a different location, you need to copy them back into deployment file location before performing the "Import" task.

To import backed up Cognos reports packages, you can also use the trcmd -import command, as it is able to distinguish between Cognos and BIRT packages and performs the import activity accordingly to the report type.

 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 IBM Tivoli Monitoring V6.x Tivoli Common Reporting