Title: IBM Release Scoring in Task Based CM - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Release Scoring in Task Based CM 

ANSWER


 Overview 

 Task-Based Reconfigure does not consider the 'release' value by default in the scoring options. For some users adding the query (All tasks with release = "") to the reconfigure properties may help to select the proper candidates. Others may require a more absolute way of using the 'release' value to isolate the candidates they want. Changing the reconf_release_score attribute can make this modification. There are definite caveats to using this option and it should be used only after serious consideration. Please review the entire document and ensure that you understand the issues prior to proceeding. Before using release scoring, make certain that you have a valid backup of the database(s) prior to making any changes 

 Details 

 With task-based reconfigure, you can set your projects to select object versions whose release best matches the project's release. This feature is called release scoring. Release scoring is not turned on by default for task-based reconfigure, but you might want to use it if your site develops parallel releases where one release includes the other release's changes. 

 This feature is similar to the release scoring in object-status-based reconfigure; task-based reconfigure finds the project's release in the release table, then uses the corresponding list to give each candidate points depending on its position in the list. If the object version's release is not found in the list, it receives no extra points, but can still be selected if no other object versions have higher scores. 

 It is important to modify the Release Table and confirm that the release list is configured so that an object with the right-most value gets the most points. It is also important to update the release table so the affected releases contain the correct releases in the proper order. There is a known issue M5652, which covers the sort order problems seen in release 4.5 of CM and in earlier releases. This issue is resolved in release 5.0 and later releases. 

 CM Synergy does not recommend using this option unless you fully understand the following two points: 

 1.) In the recommended methodology, a project's folders select tasks for a particular release. Therefore, a project typically would not have candidates from multiple releases, so you would not need to use release scoring. If a project's candidates do include versions from multiple releases, the project's candidates are more likely to include parallel versions that have not been merged. In this case, release scoring can be used in an attempt to select the parallel version that best matches your project, but this is only a work-around; since you need both changes, the real solution is to merge all parallel versions as quickly as possible. 

 2.) By default, task-based reconfigure does not require object versions to have release values set correctly. If you currently use task-based CM, you may find that turning on release scoring causes reconfigure to select inappropriate versions because of their release values. Before you turn on release scoring, review your object histories and update the release values for each version as necessary. You should review carefully the message log from the first reconfigure after turning on release scoring, in order to catch any issues caused by its use. 

 To enable this feature for a specific project, create an attribute named reconf_release_score, of type boolean, and set its value to TRUE, as shown below: 

 $ ccm query -t project -n project_name -v project_version 

 $ ccm attr -c reconf_release_score -t boolean -v TRUE @1 

 To enable this feature for an entire database, create this attribute on the project type, as shown below: 

 $ ccm query -t cvtype -n project 

 $ ccm attr -c reconf_release_score -t boolean -v TRUE @1 

 If one team who shares a database with other teams wants release scoring, they should create this attribute on all existing projects used by the team. Be sure to set the attribute on the prep and released projects from which the developers check out; the attribute will persist on all future versions of those projects after being set initially. 

CM Synergy 4.x, 5.x, 6.xTB169ContentProduct versionPartner ContentInternal ContentCategoryReference I 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 KB1893