Title: IBM Installing the Rational Performance Tester Agent controller - United States

Text:
PRT; Agent Controller; Install; Rational Performance Tester; Windows; Linux; 1236220 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This technote provides steps for installing the Agent Controller for IBM® Rational® Performance Tester (RPT). 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Agent Controller is a daemon that allows client applications to launch and manage local or remote applications. It also provides information about running applications to other applications. Agent Controller is required by Rational Performance Tester and must be running on the local system where Rational Performance Tester is installed. 

Although Agent Controller is installed automatically on the local system when you install Rational Performance Tester, you can choose how to install it. You can perform a default installation or perform a custom installation, in which case you will step through the installation wizard page by page. In addition, you can install Agent Controller on remote Windows, Red Hat Linux, and SuSE Linux systems. Use the instructions in this section to perform a custom installation of Agent Controller during the Rational Performance Tester installation process or to install Agent Controller on remote systems. 

When Agent Controller is installed standalone (without Rational Performance Tester), it allows remote users to launch Java programs on the machine where it is installed. Therefore, you should restrict access to Agent Controller using one of the following options: 

 * Configure Agent Controller to allow only trusted computers (hosts) to connect. To specify trusted computers during installation, specify a custom install. 
 * Ensure that only trusted hosts have network connectivity to the machine where Agent Controller is installed. You can block network connectivity from non-trusted hosts through means such as a hardware or software firewall. 


Note:  * When Rational Performance Tester is installed, Agent Controller is automatically installed and configured to allow connections only from the local host. Therefore, the two options recommended above for standalone Agent Controller security are not required on machines where the default Rational Performance Tester installation is done. 
 * The online documentation for Agent Controller is installed after the software is installed. At that time, the documentation is added to the online help for Rational Performance Tester. 
 * For more information on the security implications of using Agent Controller, refer to the Agent Controller documentation that comes with Rational Performance Tester. 



Installing Agent Controller on a local Windows system 
Agent Controller is installed automatically after Rational Performance Tester is installed. To perform a custom installation of Agent Controller on a local Windows system where Rational Performance Tester is installed: 

 1.  Specify the custom Agent Controller installation when installing Rational Performance Tester. 
 2.  When the Agent Controller Welcome screen opens, click Next. 
 3.  Ignore any warnings about checking to make sure that the Eclipse platform is not running. Click Next to continue. 
 4.  Read and accept the license agreement and click Next to proceed. 
 5.  If you have an existing installation of Agent Controller, you are informed that it will be removed. Click Next to proceed. 
 6.  Specify the path where Agent Controller should be installed and click Next to proceed. 
 7.  Select Agent Controller features you would like to install and click Next to proceed. You should accept the default, which selects all features.  * Hyades Data Collection Engine: Framework provided by the Eclipse open source project for launching and profiling local or remote Java applications. Required. 
      * IBM Rational Plugins: Must be selected in order to select the remaining features in this list. 
      * Logging: an event-based logging framework for profiling and tracing applications. Required. 
      * Component Test: Legacy support for manual test enablement. Required. 
      * Runtime Analysis: Functionality for probe insertion, code coverage, and leak analysis. Required. 
      * Security: Creates a secure data communication channel between the Eclipse workbench and Agent Controller. Recommended. 
      * Remote support for WebSphere Application Server: Functionality for connecting to a remote WebSphere Application Server, version 5.0 or 5.1, for activities such as deployment, administration, and performance analysis. Not used by Rational Performance Tester. 
     
     
 8.  Specify the path of the Java run-time environment (JRE) that Agent Controller should be using and click Next to proceed. Rational Performance Tester requires JRE versions 1.4.2 or later. This requirement is met when installing from the Rational Performance Tester installation media and should not be changed. The JRE entered here will be used by Agent Controller for launching Java applications. 
 9.  If Remote Support for WebSphere Application Server was selected in step 7, specify the paths of IBM WebSphere Application Server version 5.0 and 5.1 and then click Next . Because Rational Performance Tester does not use these features, you can leave this page blank. 
 10. Specify which hosts can access Agent Controller and then click Next . This setting affects system security. The choices are:  * Any computer: The least secure setting. Any other machine with access to this machine can execute an arbitrary program that runs with administrator/root privilege. 
      * This computer only (default) : The most secure setting. This is the recommended setting. 
      * Specific computers: Not recommended, but if you use this feature be sure to use commas to separate host names in a list. 
     
     
 11. If Security was selected in step 7, choose one of the following security settings and then click Next to proceed.  * Disable: Communication will not be encrypted and access control will be limited to the defined host list. (Default selection.) 
      * Enable: Communication will be encrypted and all connections will be forced to authenticate for Secure Sockets Communications. Under Users, list the users that can connect to Agent Controller. (Use commas to separate user names.) These users will be required to authenticate to use the tool. 
     
     
 12. Click Next on the summary screen to proceed. 
 13. Click Finish after file transfer has completed. 



Installing Agent Controller on a remote Windows agent 
You might want to install Agent Controller on remote computers for any of these reasons:  * You want to run virtual users on the remote computer. 
 * The local computer lacks sufficient resources to host all of the virtual testers that you want to use in a test. 
 * The testing you want to perform requires specific software, which is not installed on the local computer. 

Note: For security reasons, it is highly recommended that you do not use a system with Rational Performance Tester installed as a remote agent. Before you install Agent Controller, verify that the Eclipse Platform is not running. If necessary, exit Eclipse. 

 1. Insert the installation CD into a CD-ROM drive on a remote Windows system that does not have Rational Performance Tester installed. 
    Note: You must install Agent Controller using the installation CD and not from another system where Agent Controller is already installed. 
 2. Log in as an Administrator. Because Agent Controller runs as a system service, you should use a user ID with administrator privileges to install Agent Controller. Otherwise, the Agent Controller service might fail to install or start. 
 3. If autorun is disabled, run launchpad.exe from the root of the first installation CD. 
 4. From the launchpad, select Install Rational Performance Tester Agent Controller. Follow the wizard instructions. 


Important: On the Java Runtime Environment page, the location of the Java run-time file (java.exe) is specified. This field contains the default location of the Java run-time file included with Agent Controller. Unless your system administrator instructs you to specify a different location, do not change this field as it might cause Agent Controller to malfunction. Do not change other default values in the wizard unless instructed to by your system administrator. 
Note: These are the options on the Host Access Settings page:  * This computer only: Do not select. This renders the remote agent inaccessible. 
 * Any computer (default): Any other machine can use this agent. It may cause a security exposure depending on your environment. 
 * Specific computers: Best choice. It can protect the machine from malicious attack, but it increases administrative overhead in a fluid environment. (Use commas to separate host names.) 


By default, the Agent Controller service starts when it is installed and then whenever you start the computer. For more information about working with Agent Controller, see the online help. 
Installing Agent Controller on Linux
To install or upgrade Agent Controller: 

 1. Log in as root. 
 2. Navigate to the root directory of the CD-ROM and start launchpad.bin. 


Important: The Specify where the Java Runtime file (java.exe) is located field contains the default location of the Java run-time file included with Agent Controller. Unless your system administrator instructs you to specify a different location, do not change this field as it might cause Agent Controller to malfunction. Do not change other default values in the wizard unless instructed to by your system administrator.