Title: IBM Example on forward and reverse engineering with Visual Basic - United States

Text:
vb; example; rei; round; trip; engineer; engineering; example; 1124476 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This technote provides a step by step round trip example with Visual Basic and Rational Rose® 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Below are the steps to do a forward and reverse engineer of a Visual Basic
1. Make sure your default language is set to Visual Basic
a. Go to Tools / Options / Notation
b. Under Default Language select Visual Basic 
c. Click OK 
2. Now we will create a class called Person
a. Right click on the Logical View
b. Select New / Class
c. Right Click on the new class
d. Go to Open Specifications / General Tab
e. In the Name type Person
3. Next we want to create an attribute called Hair color
a. In the Open Specifications of the class select the Attributes tab
b. Right click in the white area and select insert
c. Double click on name (the attribute we created)
d. In the Name type Hair Color
e. Under Type select String and click OK
4. Now we want to create an operation called drive
a. In the Open Specifications of the class click on the Operations Tab 
b. Right click in the white area and select insert
c. We will want to name this operation drive
d. Double click on opname (the default name of the operation)
e. In the General Tab under name type Drive
f. We want the return type to be Boolean 
g. Click OK and then OK again on the Class Specification 
5. Now we want to generate code
a. Right click on the class
b. Select Update Code
c. You will see a Code Update Tool Wizard
d. Click on Create a Visual Basic component and assign class to it
e. In the new tab select standard exe and click OK
f. Now on the wizard you will see Visual Basic / Project1 / Person with checks next to them
g. Click Next 
h. You will see Components assigned to Visual Basic Language Project1 <<Standard EXE>> and person under that
i. Click Finish
j. It will ask you to save the model. Save the model as VB in the location you want (mine is in D:\Temp)
k. It will update your code and it will say code update is complete click close

You have successfully generated your code. 

Now we will make a change to the code and reverse engineer that into Rose
1. Now you want to open the code by double clicking on the person.cls file
Mine is in D:\Temp\person.cls 
2. In Visual Basic on the right side expand Project1
3. Expand Class Modules
4. Double click on Person (Person.cls)
5. Now you will see the code for this
6. At the end of the line '## ModelID= click Enter
7. Now you want to type Private EyeColor as string
8. Save the project as the same
9. Now in Rose open a blank model
a. File / New 
10. Now we will reverse engineer the code
a. Go to Tools / Visual basic / Update Model from Code
b. You will then see a Model update Tool Wizard
c. Select Add a Visual Basic Component
d. Click the Recent Tab
e. Select Project1 and click Add and OK
f. Expand Visual Basic / Project1 / person
g. Now you want to click Next
h. It will say Model Update Tool Finish 
i. Click finish
j. It will say save model as type VB1 and click Save
k. It will start to update code 
l. Next you will see Model Update Tool Summary click Close
m. Now expand Logical View / Reverse Engineer / Project1
n. Under the class Person you will see EyeColor

 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Rose Enterprise 2001a.04.00, 2002.05.00, 2002.05.20, 2003.06.00, 2003.06.01, 2003.06.12, 2003.06.13 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 17204