Title: IBM How to create an automated SQL backup of the FSR database with Scheduled Tasks? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How can a systems administrator or a database administrator create an automated backup of the FSR database using Scheduled Tasks? 

CAUSE
There is a need for scheduled backups of the database at specific time periods.

ANSWER
The database backup process for FSR is similar to backing up any other SQL database. If you need additional details about backing up your SQL database, please contact Microsoft support.


To setup the schedule backup you will need to perform the following: 

1. Go in to SQL Server Management Studio; 

2. Expand Databases and right click the database that you would like to backup; 

3. Go to Tasks>Backup; 

4. Select the location where to store the file and the other details for the backup; 

5. Select Script>Script Action to file and save the file on your hard drive (e.g C:\FSRBackup.sql); 

6. Go to Control Panel>Scheduled Tasks and click Add Scheduled Task; 

7. Select the application that you want to run. For our purposes we will be using SQLCMD.EXE. In order to find SQLCMD.EXE you will need to click on the Browse... button 

You should be able to find this in the following directory "C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\90\Tools\Binn"; 

8. Give the scheduled task a name and specify when to perform the task; 

9. Specify the time that this should be run; 

10. Finish and save the task. One thing you want to do is click on the "Open advanced properties" so you can edit the command. 

11. The advanced properties screen will appear. You will need to change the "Run" command to the following: 

sqlcmd -S serverName -E -i C:\FSRBackup.sql


This is broken down as follows: 

 * sqlcmd 
 * -S (this specifies the server\instance name for SQL Server) 
 * serverName (this is the server\instance name for SQL Server) 
 * -E (this allows you to make a trusted connection) 
 * -i (this specifies the input command file) 
 * C:\FSRBackup.sql (this is the file that we created above with the command steps)