Title: IBM What is External Authentication used for and how do you implement it for Connect:Direct Secure+ Option for z/OS? - United States

Text:
EA External Authentication External Auth TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What is External Authentication used for and how do you implement it for Connect:Direct Secure+ Option for z/OS? 

ANSWER


External Authentication is used to determine if a certificate is valid. There are three validation options: 1. Validity - Verifies dates in the validity period of the certificate are still in effect. If the dates are not in effect, the certificate is not used. 
2. Auth Chain - Constructs a chain of trust for certificates that are not self-signed. If a chain of trust cannot be constructed using valid certificates, the certificate is not used. If the certificate is self-signed, this option verifies only the certificate signature. 
3. CRL Cache - Checks the Certificate Revocation List (CRL) in the CRL cache to ensure that the certificate is not revoked or in a held state. If the certificate passes these validation options then it can be used for the session setup, if not then the session is rejected. Some message that you might see when a certificate fails External Authentication: CERT003E - Certificate is revoked: {0.EN}. A revoked Certificate was submitted for validation. CERT006E - Could not validate chain to trust anchor. An invalid Certificate chain has been detected. CERT007E - Incomplete certificate chain. Please check the submitted Certificate chain to make sure it is valid. CERT009E - Certificate is not valid until {0.EN}. CERT010E - Certificate expired on {0.EN}. To implement External Authentication on Connect:Direct Secure+ Option for z/OS follow the instruction in the Connect:Direct Secure+ Option for z/OS Implementation Guide. In the chapter Create the Parameters File Manually for the SSL Protocol see section Add a Remote Node Record for the External Authentication Server. This same section is also in the chapter Create the Parameter File Manually for the TLS Protocol. And in the chapter Configure Remote Node Records Imported from the Network Map see the section Add a remote Node Record for External Authentication Server. Once you have add this remote node the External Authentication information External Auth Server Def, External Auth Server Address and External Auth. Server Port will be propagated into the EA Parameters of all nodes in your Secure+ PARMFILE. To enable External Authentication for a specific remote node go into it and set the Enable External Auth field to 1 or yes. There is a certificate in the EAServer to validate the mainframe to the server but no other certificate is in the EAServer. Connect:Direct for z/OS, All Releases