Title: IBM Unable to publish packages from a particular FM model: BMT-MDC-0001  CM-REQ-4192  CM-REQ-4230 - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 No longer able to publish packages from a particular Framework Manager model 

SYMPTOM
BMT-MDC-0001 Impossible to publish.
CCL-RCI-0002 Soap server transmits a Soap error
CM-REQ-4192 The property "policies" (for an object of class "Secured Function") is incorrect.
CM-REQ-4230 Your request contains a search path that has an invalid object reference. The object "CAMID(":Consumers")" does not exist.

CAUSE
The model has incorporated security that has been changed in the namespace. For example, the existing role has had its name either changed, removed, or its permissions have changed.

If security roles are often changed, the best approach is either not to include the security in FM model, or include the Administrator only (assuming that this role is never changed).

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 

For example, if the name of the role was changed you will need to:

 1. Log to Cognos Connection and go to Tools -> Directory.
 2. Click on the Cognos namespace.
 3. Find the role in question.
 4. Re-name it back to what it was before the change

Once done, publishing the package from FM should no longer be a problem.

Steps:  1. Log to Cognos Connection with a user that has Admin privileges.
 2. Go to Tools -> Directory
 3. Click on the Cognos namespace. The list of all groups and roles available will be display.
 4. Navigate to the role that has been changed.
 5. Under Actions, select Set Properties.
 6. In the General tab, under the Name section, rename the group/role to the name it had before.
 7. Click OK to save changes.



Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Framework Manager Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Install and Config Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Report Studio 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1020893