Title: IBM Configure the Content Manager OnDemand Client for the Citrix Environment - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do you set up the Content Manager OnDemand Client to run under the Citrix Xen App Presentation Server environment and support multiple languages? 

ANSWER
To run the Content Manager OnDemand Client in the multiple language environment under the Citrix Xen App Presentation Server environment, you need to publish the applications configured to run for the given language on the Citrix Presentation Server. 

For the remainder of this article, the Content Manager OnDemand Client will be referred to as the OnDemand Client and the Citrix Xen App Presentation Server will be referred to as the Citrix Server. 

On the Windows® Server where the Citrix Server is installed, additional language packs should be installed for the required languages. Also on the Windows Server where the Citrix Server is installed, the OnDemand Client should be installed with additional language components for the required languages. 

 

Solution #1 - Single Language Setup - All Clients Using the Same Language 

In this solution, all Citrix clients will be running with the same language, for example, English, Russian, or Japanese. The Windows Server must be installed with that language selected as the system default. 

 1. Publish the OnDemand Client application under the Citrix Access Management Console. On the Location page, copy and paste the content from the Target field of the Windows menu shortcut, such as OnDemand32 Japanese, to the Citrix Command line field. Copy and paste the content of the Start in field to the Citrix Working directory field.  * Note for V9.5 Clients: All languages are automatically installed for the OnDemand V9.5 Clients but only one language neutral menu shortcut will be created for each client. Each client, will start with the default system language. For example, if the default system locale is set to Spanish, the client will start in Spanish.
    
    
 2. Give users access to this published application.


Solution #2 - Multiple Language Setup - Clients Using Different Languages 

In this solution, Citrix clients will be running with different languages, for example, English, French, Russian and Simplified Chinese. The Windows Server should be installed with English set as the default language. In this multi-user environment, one needs to install the OnDemand Clients V8.5 and V9.0 with required languages. Note OnDemand Clients V9.5 installs all languages automatically. 

 

OnDemand Clients V8.5, V9.0 and V9.5 are Unicode applications which can support all languages simultaneously. The use of the Microsoft AppLocale utility is not needed or applicable. One must make sure correct fonts are installed for given languages to be supported.


 1. During the installation of the OnDemand Clients 8.5 and V9.0, select languages needed for the Administration Client and the Client. There is no language selection choices for the OnDemand Clients V9.5 as all supported languages are automatically installed. 
 2. Publish the OnDemand Client application under the Citrix Access Management Console to run under a specific language on the Citrix Server.  * For OnDemand Clients V8.5 and V9.0, on the Location page, copy and paste the content from the Target field of the Windows menu shortcut, such as OnDemand32 Japanese, to the Citrix Command line field. Copy and paste the content of the Start in field to the Citrix Working directory field. 
     * For OnDemand Clients V9.5, on the Location page, copy and paste the content from the Target field of the Windows menu shortcut, OnDemand Client V9.5, to the Citrix Command line field. To override the default system language, append additional command line aguments, /L <id>, where <id> represents a three letter language ID, such as CZE for Czech (ex. /L CZE). To find out what language IDs are supported, please refer to the table below. 
     * Copy and paste the content of the Start in field to the Citrix Working directory field. 
     * Test the menu shortcut to make sure that it works as expected.
    
    
 3. Repeat step 2 to publish additional applications for other languages as needed. 
 4. Give users access to published applications.


The OnDemand Client supports following language IDs: 

ARA, CHS, CHT, CZE, DAN, DEU, ELL, ENU, ESP, FIN, FRA, HEB, HRV, HUN, ITA, JPN, KOR, NLD, NOR, PLK, PTB, RUS, SKY, SLO, SVE, TRK 

The OnDemand Administration Client supports following language IDs: 

CHS, CHT, DEU, ENU, ESP, FRA, ITA, JPN, KOR, PTB, RUS

Here is a quick reference of support languages and their language IDs.



Locales / Languages Language ID Values for /L Japan / Japanese JPN China / Traditional Chinese CHT Eastern Europe 
/ 
Croatian, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Slovakian, Slovenian HRV, CZE, HUN, PLK, 
SKY, SLO Russia/Russian RUS Americas & Western Europe 
/ 
English, French, German, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese (Brazilian), Dutch, Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, Swedish ENU, FRA, DEU, ESP, ITA, 
PTB, NLD, DAN, 
FIN, NOR, SVE Greece / Greek ELL Israel / Hebrew HEB Saudi Arabia, Egypt/Arabic ARA Korea / Korean KOR Russia / Russian RUS China / Simplified Chinese CHS Turkey / Turkish TRK