Title: IBM Turning on logging in Impromptu Web Report and Powerplay Enterprise Server - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 How is logging turned on in Powerplay Enterprise Server and Impromptu Web Reports 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
For Impromptu Web Reports:

1. Go to Start > Programs > Cognos EP Series 7 > Tools > Configuration Manager.
2. Open the current configuration and make sure you are in the Advanced View.
3. Search for 'logging' in the online help for more information.
4. Go to IBM Cognos Impromptu Web Reports > Common > Logging.
5. On the right-hand side of the screen you can specify a Severity Filter for IWR Logging and Windows Event Logging. The maximum setting is 31. The default value is 15.

For more information about the available severity levels, see page 89 and 90 of the Impromptu Web Reports Guide - Chapter 10. By default, IWR also logs messages to the Windows Event Viewer. If you don't want IWR message to appear in the Event Viewer, you can disable it. The Configuration Manager User Guide (ug_inst_cnfg.pdf) also outlines the settings that can be changed to include logging for Impromptu Web Reports.

For Powerplay Enterprise Server:

1. Open Powerplay Enterprise Server Administration
2. Right-click on the server and select Properties
3. Under Settings > Options > Auditing Level - set this to Summary or Detail
4. Go to Cube Settings and Report Settings and select the Auditing required.

For more information on the level of detail search the online help in PPES Administration on 'logging'. Note: logging must be enabled under the server settings as well as all the lower levels (e.g.- Cube Settings, Report Settings) as this is the master setting that will override lower settings.

When does the ppes_audit.log start auditing? Why are there a number of ppes_audit.log files on the system? Once logging has been enabled in the PowerPlay Enterprise Server Administrator, a new ppes_audit.log file is created whenever the IBM Cognos PowerPlay Enterprise Server service is started. If a ppes_audit.log already exists, then the old ppes_audit.log file will be renamed, and a new ppes_audit.log will be created. The naming convention is ppes_audit1.log, ppes_audit2.log, ppes_audit3.log, etc. Until the service is stopped, PPES will keep appending to the current ppes_audit.log file.

For information how to store this ppes_audit.log file information in a database to do analysis on this data, see the pes.pdf document Chapter 6. (keyword: PPESAuditFileProcessor)

How is it possible to obtain detailed log data from the log file generated from PowerPlay Web Server, such as who logged onto which cube? The PowerPlay Web Administrator only allows the logging of the cube through the Event Viewer and this only displays what machine logged onto the web server and at what time and eventually, what kind of error occurred. To display more detailed information, use the logging options of the Web Server being used, for example, Netscape or MS IIS.

 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics ImpromptuWeb Reports ImpromptuWeb Reports Business Analytics Cognos Series 7 PowerPlay Enterprise Server Business Analytics Cognos Series 7 Upfront 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 909543