Title: IBM How to restrict batches with IBM Datacap Taskmaster Capture - United States

Text:
restrict limit users operators; Store; Queue To TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How can users be restricted to run only their own batches in Taskmaster Client or Taskmaster Web? 

ANSWER
Taskmaster includes the capability for users to perform operations on their own batches. The most common scenario is prevalent with Taskmaster Web scanning, upload and verification. 

Using the latest software and patching, batches already on hold should be restricted to the operator (and potentially station ID) stored for that batch. For batches that are in pending status, enforce batch queuing using the Store and Queue To workflow task settings. 

 1. Run Taskmaster Client (only in Taskmaster 8.0.1 and earlier) or Taskmaster Web. 
 2. Select Settings | Workflow in the client or go to Settings tab of Administrator in Taskmaster Web. 
 3. Highlight respective tasks in turn (ex: Scan, Upload and Verify), and set the following:  * Queue To - Select the option on how batches need to be restricted. 
     * Store - Select the information that needs to be stored. Note that Queue To settings will not work properly if the needed information was not set to Store in the previous task (ex: upload).
    
    
 4. Select the Users or Groups tab depending on the Taskmaster Server authentication mode. 
 5. Highlight each user or group for which this restriction will apply and uncheck the Priority/Operator/Station Change or Priority/Operator Change privilege under the Job Monitor section. This is only required if using a shortcut with Manual or Manual for Hold mode.


Normally background tasks such as Batch Profiler will not be assigned Store or Queue To settings, which will only be configured for tasks involving user interaction.  

Note: This requires that the general Job Monitor not be used to run the batch. Batches should be run through the Operations panel or tab. 

Example configuration: 

 * Scan - (Store) Station and User 
 * Upload - (Queue to) Same station same user 
 * Verify - (Queue to) Same user


In this example, all batches scanned by a user will be uploaded only when logged into Taskmaster Web with the same user name and station ID, where the operator is a restricted user, and selecting the appropriate Operations shortcut. The same batches will be verified when logged into Taskmaster Web with the same user name, but not necessarily the same station ID.