Title: IBM Slow or timed out logins in FileNet WorkplaceXT - United States

Text:
time-out; timed out; connection pooling; performance; slow; login; logins; workplace xt TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Attempts to Login to FileNet WorkplaceXT result in a timeout or upwards of 3 minutes for the login to succeed 

SYMPTOM
Logins fail or take excessive time


CAUSE
SSL Connection Pooling not enabled

ENVIRONMENT
IBM Websphere 7

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Review of p8_server_trace log showed connection pooling not enabled

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM






Enable connection pooling as follows:

Login to WebSphere Integrated Solutions Console.



 1. Click Server
    
    
 2. Application Servers
    
    
 3. Server
    
    
 4. Server Infrastructure 
    
    
 5. Java and Process Management 
    
    
 6. Process definition
    
    
 7. Java Virtual Machine
    
    
 8. In the generic JVM arguments field, add the following (all entries on one line separated by a space).
    
    -Dcom.sun.jndi.ldap.connect.pool.timeout=300000 
    "-Dcom.sun.jndi.ldap.connect.pool.protocol=plain ssl"
    
    (On a WebSphere cluster environment, this configuration must be implemented on all JVMs that are hosting the Content Engine application.)
    
    
 9. Save the changes and restart the application server.
    
    
    Important: The above pooling configuration is a starting point for the P8 system; clients' System. Administrators should review the JVM JNDI connection pooling specification and monitor their test and production environment, to adjust the configuration for optimal stability and performance. If the pool maxsize is not used then the pool size is dynamically managed by the JVM pool manager. The idle connection will be used before creating new connections and connections are closed when the idle time expires. Please note that if the connection pool maxsize parameter is set, it has to be able to withstand the peak workload on the Content Engine System without (or with very few) pending requests, otherwise the system could encounter failures including but not limited to application server JVM hang. System administrators could use the netstat command, the Directory Server access log, or their preferred tool to monitor LDAP connection and other system resource usage to adjust the connection pool configuration as needed.
    
    
    The connection pool timeout has to be less than the Directory Server idle connection timeout. Refer to the Directory Server documentation to find out the idle connection timeout. If the load balancer is used to load balance Directory Servers then the JNDI connection pool timeout must be less than the load balancer idle connection timeout.
    
    The JNDI connection pooling is managed by the JVM.