Title: IBM How to install a license in IBM UrbanCode Deploy version 6.0.1 - United States

Text:
license TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do you install a license in IBM UrbanCode Deploy version 6.0.1? 

CAUSE
The licensing process has changed. To use IBM UrbanCode Deploy 6.0.1, you must install Rational Common Licensing, import licenses, and apply those licenses to the IBM UrbanCode Deploy servers and agents. See the following information about the licensing scenarios and steps to set up licensing.

ANSWER
Applying licenses to servers and agents


To use licenses, you install a Rational Common Licensing server, import your license keys, and link the IBM UrbanCode Deploy servers or agents to the license server. 

 

About this task 

For information about the types of licenses, see the License scenarios section of this document. 

 

Procedure 

 

 1. Install a Rational Common Licensing server. See the following link: http://pic.dhe.ibm.com/infocenter/rational/v0r0m0/topic/com.ibm.rational.license.doc/topics/c_managing_lic.html [http://pic.dhe.ibm.com/infocenter/rational/v0r0m0/topic/com.ibm.rational.license.doc/topics/c_managing_lic.html]
    
    
 2. Add licenses to the Rational Common Licensing server.
    
    
 3. On the IBM UrbanCode Deploy server, click Settings > System Settings.
    
    
 4. On the System Settings page, under Licensing, specify the connection information for the license server and click Save. You can specify the port and host name or IP address for the license server, such as 27000@RCLServer.mycompany.com. To avoid problems when a license server is not available, you can specify multiple license servers. In this case, separate each port and host name with colons on Linux and UNIX or semicolons on Windows. For more complicated license server scenarios, see this document: http://pic.dhe.ibm.com/infocenter/rational/v0r0m0/index.jsp?topic=/com.ibm.rational.license.doc/topics/r_specify_lic_servers.html [http://pic.dhe.ibm.com/infocenter/rational/v0r0m0/index.jsp?topic=/com.ibm.rational.license.doc/topics/r_specify_lic_servers.html] 
    
    The Server License Type field shows the type of licensing that the server is using.
    
    
 5. If you are using virtual server and managed virtual server (Authorized) licensing, specify whether to assign licenses to the agents automatically or manually:  * To assign licenses to agents automatically, select the Automatic Agent Licensing check box and then click Save. This check box is meaningful only if you are using virtual server and managed virtual server (Authorized) licensing.
       
       
     * To assign licenses to agents manually, follow these steps:
        1. Click Resources > Agents. 
        2. Next to an agent, click Actions and then click License. This menu item is available only if the Server License Type field is set to Server Agent and the Automatic Agent Licensing check box is cleared. 
        3. In the Confirmation window, click OK. The License column for the agent shows AUTHORIZED and the agent is licensed.
       
       
    
    


Results 

Now you can run processes on the licensed servers and agents. 




 Back to top 


License scenarios Several different license scenarios are available. Depending on the scenario, you might need to apply licenses to IBM UrbanCode Deploy servers, agents, or both. 

The following license scenarios are available. You can see the type of license that the server is using by logging in to the IBM UrbanCode Deploy server, clicking Settings > System Settings and looking at the Server License Type field. 

Note: IBM UrbanCode Deploy does not support mixing license types. If more than one of these license types are available on the license server, IBM UrbanCode Deploy uses the type of license with the highest priority. The license scenarios have the following priority, from highest to lowest: 

License priority (versions prior to 6.1) 

 1. Processor value unit (PVU) licensing 
 2. Virtual server and managed virtual server (Authorized) licensing 
 3. Concurrent sessions (floating licenses) 
 4. Concurrent sessions (token licenses)


For example, if the license server has each type of license, when an IBM UrbanCode Deploy server starts, it retrieves a PVU license. If another IBM UrbanCode Deploy server starts and no more PVU licenses are available, that server does not receive a license and does not use the other types of license. 

In IBM UrbanCode Deploy Version 6.1 and later, the license priorities changed. The license scenarios for IBM UrbanCode Deploy 6.1 and later have the following priority, from highest to lowest: 

License priority (version 6.1 and later)  1. Virtual server and managed virtual server (Authorized) licensing 
 2. Processor value unit (PVU) licensing 
 3. Concurrent sessions (floating licenses) 
 4. Concurrent sessions (token licenses)



Processor value unit (PVU) licensing 
In this scenario, you apply the IBM URBANCODE DEPLOY MANAGED CAPACITY PVU LIC license to the IBM UrbanCode Deploy server. Then, the server can run processes. In this case, the agents do not require a license; instead, each PVU license allows the server to use a certain number of agents concurrently. The number of concurrent agents may be limited or unlimited, depending on the terms of the PVU license. If you are using this license scenario and the license server does not have any PVU licenses for a IBM UrbanCode Deploy server, the server cannot run processes. For this type of licensing, the Server License Type field shows Managed Capacity. 

You can track your use of the PVU licenses with the IBM License Metric Tool. See http://pic.dhe.ibm.com/infocenter/tivihelp/v53r1/topic/com.ibm.lmt75.doc/ic-homepage_lmt.html [http://pic.dhe.ibm.com/infocenter/tivihelp/v53r1/topic/com.ibm.lmt75.doc/ic-homepage_lmt.html] 

Virtual server and managed virtual server (Authorized) licensing
In this scenario, you apply the IBM URBANCODE DEPLOY SERVER AGENT VIRTUAL SERVER license to the server and IBM URBANCODE DEPLOY SERVER AGENT MANAGED VIRTUAL SERVER licenses to the agents. If an agent does not have a license, it cannot run processes. 

In this scenario, you can either allow the server to assign licenses to agents automatically or you can assign licenses to agents manually. The licenses are released when the agents are deleted. 

For this type of licensing, the Server License Type field shows Server Agent.






 Back to top 



Concurrent sessions (floating licenses) 
In this scenario, the IBM URBANCODE DEPLOY SESSION PER SIMULTANEOUS SESSION LIC license is available to the agents. When an agent runs a process, it retrieves a license from the license server. 30 minutes after the process is complete, the agent returns the license to the license server. In this scenario, the server does not require a license. When the license server runs out of licenses, the agent runs the process but adds warnings in the log. Also, a warning message appears on the server web interface. This message says that a license could not be obtained for the IBM UrbanCode Deploy server or an agent. If you replenish the licenses on the license server, the IBM UrbanCode Deploy server can run processes, but the warning message stays visible for 24 hours. 

For this type of licensing, the Server License Type field shows Session.






 Back to top 

Concurrent sessions (token licenses)
In this scenario, the IBM URBANCODE DEPLOY SESSION INITIAL TOKEN 2 YEAR license is available to the agents. When an agent runs a process, it retrieves a certain number of these token licenses from the license server. 30 minutes after the process is complete, the agent returns the licenses to the license server. In this scenario, the server does not require a license. 

When the license server runs out of licenses, the agent runs the process but adds warnings in the log. Also, a warning message appears on the server web interface. This message says that a license could not be obtained for the IBM UrbanCode Deploy server or an agent. If you replenish the licenses on the license server, the IBM UrbanCode Deploy server can run processes, but the warning message stays visible for 24 hours. 

For this type of licensing, the Server License Type field shows Session.