Title: IBM Content Navigator Version 3.0.3 Known problems, issues, and limitations - United States

Text:
 RELEASE NOTES

ABSTRACT
 This document contains a list of problems, issues, and limitations that were known at the time of publication. 

CONTENT
In addition to reviewing this list, you should search the IBM Support site for any updates that might be available. 


To search the IBM Support site for IBM Content Navigator, go to the IBM Content Navigator Support Portal [http://www.ibm.com/support/entry/portal/overview/software/enterprise_content_management/content_navigator].




IBM CONTENT NAVIGATOR

GENERAL PROBLEMS, ISSUES, AND LIMITATIONS
Problem
On a WebSphere horizontally clustered environment, a failure occurs when the active node fails before you try to complete any of the following operations:  * You make a change to a document in Merge and Split mode, and then check in the document after failover. 
 * You add a new document in Merge and Split mode after failover. 
 * You save a permanent redaction in the Viewer after failover.


Resolving the problem
Cancel the current Add, Check in, or Save operation when you run into a failure, and then reopen the document and make the changes again on the new active node. Problem
The Daeja print service does not support EBCDIC encoded line data documents.

Resolving the problem
Users can view and print EBCDIC encoded line data documents using the line data applet viewer Problem
FireFox takes too long to open print dialog when printing large files if FireFox is configured to use its own pdf previewer. 

Resolving the problem
Use another browser to open pdf documents, or use a different FireFox addon such as adobe to open pdf documents. Problem
Edge browser will not be able to open line data files using IBM Content Manager OnDemand HTML viewer.

Resolving the problem
Use another browser to open line data files if ICN is configured to open the MIME type using IBM Content Manager OnDemand HTML viewer. Problem
The Daeja viewer or print service does not support P8 Multi-content document with Office document part if entitlement license not installed.

Resolving the problem
Users can view and print P8 Multi-content document with Office document part by installing the Daeja entitlement license. Problem
In IE 11.0.10240.16384 on Windows 10, img tags whose src is a base64 encoded svg will not apply styles embedded in the svg.

Resolving the problem
Use a browser other than IE11 on Windows 10 systems to avoid this known IE 11 limitation. 
DOCUMENTATION UPDATES

Table 2 in the topic Language support for IBM Content Navigator should include the Bulgarian language, because it is supported in IBM Content Navigator and the user interface.