Title: IBM®  Endpoint Manager for Remote Control supports Windows  10 operating system. - United States

Text:
Windows 10; IBM endpoint manager for remote control; hidden icons; notifications; edge browser; user acceptance; Windows 8.1 NEWS

ABSTRACT
 The IBM® Endpoint Manager for Remote Control components now support Windows 10 operating system. 

CONTENT
IBM Endpoint Manager for Remote Control version 9.1.0-IF0008 components support Windows 10 operating system. Fixlets have been deployed to Remote Control site 35 in the IBM Endpoint Manager console. 

Please note the following issues.

The Target notification icon is not visible in Tablet Mode.

Windows 10 gives you the option to switch between Desktop mode and Tablet mode. By default, Windows 10 does not show all notification icons in Tablet mode, preventing access to the target user interface. To remediate, right-click the taskbar while in Tablet mode and select 'Show all notification icons'. 


Microsoft Edge is not a supported browser.

Microsoft Edge, which replaced Internet Explorer as the default browser in Windows 10, is not an officially supported browser for use with IBM Endpoint Manager for Remote Control. The Edge browser does not support ActiveX controls and browser plug-ins. Use a supported browser, such as Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox, to run on-demand remote control sessions. Using the Edge browser to run on-demand remote control sessions does work if a Java Runtime (JRE) is installed on the Windows 10 system. 

Operating system is reported as Windows 8.1 instead of Windows 10.

In the controller window and the target UI, when you click the system information icon, the operating system is reported as Windows 8.1 in the sysinfo.txt file. Similarly, the server UI also reports the OS for Window 10 targets as Windows 8.1. For example, on the 'Create new session' page.

Note: The same limitations that are documented for Windows 8 Metro UI in the IBM Endpoint Manager for Remote Control release notes, also apply to Windows 10 Tablet mode. For example, the user acceptance window does not pop to the front of an application if the user is working in tablet mode.

Privacy mode cannot be enabled

In Windows 8 and above, including Windows 10, there is a limitation that prevents Privacy Mode from being enabled. The Input Lock feature, that prevents a user on the target machine from using the keyboard or mouse is available. However, Privacy Mode where the screen is hidden from the target user, is not supported for these versions of Windows.