Title: IBM Importing a Case Manager solution that was upgraded to 5.3 fails with FNRCE0058E: E_REQUIRED_VALUE_ABSENT. - United States

Text:
migration TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 A solution that was successfully upgraded to IBM Case Manager (ICM) 5.3 in a devleopment profile fails to import into a production profile. 

SYMPTOM
The ICM application server log contains the following error: 

Object has failed the import process because of an error classId=CmAcmPage&objectId={3B9AA742-C661-4CF9-80D4-721AD53D0381}&objectStore={10E5BE41-455D-4092-8416-7600BFDCFFE2}
com.filenet.api.exception.EngineRuntimeException: FNRCE0058E: E_REQUIRED_VALUE_ABSENT: A required property value has not been set. Required property CmAcmReferenceName is missing. failedBatchItem=0 errorStack={


CAUSE
The solution pages in the production system have a different globally unique identifier (GUID) then the same pages in development. Solutions objects, like pages, should have the same GUIDs across systems. 

It is explained in the ICM Knowledge Center article referenced below. Here is an excerpt:

The solution that you are importing has the same name as an existing solution and the objects in the solutions have the same name but different GUIDs. For example, if you import a solution into the production environment and then delete pages from the solution with the same name in the development environment and export the pages again, importing the solution fails because now the pages have the same name but different GUIDs. 


ENVIRONMENT
Case Manager 5.3 upgraded from 5.1.1.x



DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Locate the object listed in the error by performing a search in the development system using the ID listed in the error. Note the object name and location, then find it in the production system. Compare its ID property to the one for the same object in the development system. If it is different, you are experiencing the issue described here.




RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Before taking the steps below, make sure you have a current and working backup of the development and production ICM object store databases so they can be restored in the event problems are encountered or the deletion step needs to be reversed. 

 1. In the production system, delete the problem page objects witht he GUIDs that do not match the same objects in development from the solution using ACCE. 
 2. In the development system, use FileNet Deployment Manager(FDM) to export the relevant Pages objects. 
 3. In the production system, log into ACCE and navigate to the Page document class in the Staging object store. Open the Property Definitions tab and click the Reference Name property link. In the Property Definition window, open the More tab and uncheck the Value required checkbox. 
 4. In production, import the Page documents using FDM making sure to keep the original ID. 
 5. In production, go back to the Page document class in the Staging object store and reverse the change made in step 4. Go to the Property Definitions tab and click the Reference Name property link. In the Property Definition windows, open the More tab and check the Value required checkbox. 
 6. Try importing the solution into the production system again. It should import successfully now. 
 7. Deploy the solution in the production system.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Solution Import Problems [https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSCTJ4_5.3.0/com.ibm.casemgmt.design.doc/acmta008.htm]