Title: IBM Case Accent Insensitive search verity oracle mssql properties and content - United States

Text:
Case Accent Insensitive search verity oracle mssql properties and content TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Case Accent Insensitive search verity oracle mssql properties and content 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Steps 
Created data object store. 
Within the data object store, selected the folder FILE STORES and creatd a new file store. 
Selected Data object store and configured it for Full Text Indexing. 
Created a Database index with 1 index and Universal for the language. 
Created a File Store index with 1 index and Universal for the language. 
Select Property Level Indexing and goto Class Definitions\Document\Indexable Properties and double click on Document Title to create an index on this property. 
Create a directory on the object store and add the documents. 
It will take a couple of minutes for the documents and its properties to be indexed. 

Create a new search in Search Designer and select the newly indexed object store in the object stores tab. 
Select Search Criteria tab and goto the Properties and Content conditions section. Select Editable in View and VQL in Modifiers. 
Save the search criteria to the object store you have just indexed. 
Close Search Designer and launch the Search Template. Search on the word finde. 

Document Title Search: 
I created an object store and index it on the document title and the content. I added 4 files with the following titles, but different content: 

finde.doc qwerty 
findé.doc 67890 
findê.doc 123456 
test.doc finde 

When I carried out a search on these documents with my search template using the word finde. The search returned all 4 documents. I believe this should answer you questions regarding case insensitive searching for both content and document properties. One final note, when I installed the SQL database, I made sure it was Case/Accent insensitive with codepage 125252



HISTORICAL NUMBER
 20001650 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 P8 CONTENT ENGINE