Title: IBM Using IBM Datacap Taskmaster Capture 8.1, how do I convert my 7.6/8.0/8.0.1 application? - United States

Text:
Install; migration; upgrade; convert TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Using Datacap 8.1, how do I convert my 7.6/8.0/8.0.1 application? 

ANSWER
Converting an application from a previous release by using the Application Wizard 

To convert applications that were created in a previous release of IBM Datacap Taskmaster Capture, Application Wizard can be used to convert these applications to work with the 8.1 release of Taskmaster. Please note that the following will only convert an application to the 8.1 format, but typically will not result in a working application. Corrections must be made to the application to handle the code changes required for an 8.1 application. Please refer to the InfoCenter Migrating From Previous Releases section for more information. 

Converting a 7.6 application by using the Application Wizard 

The 7.6 application must first be converted to the 8.0 format, then repeat the process to convert from the 8.0 to 8.1. Earlier versions must first be converted to 7.6, which is beyond the scope of this document. 

To use the Application Wizard to convert a 7.6 application: 

 1.  Copy the entire folder of the application to be converted to the \datacap folder on the IBM Datacap Taskmaster Capture 8.1.0 computer. 
 2.  On the Taskmaster 8.1.0 computer, in the \datacap\RRS folder, create a \libs folder. Copy the application’s folder in the 7.6 \datacap\rrs\libs to the 8.1 computer. 
 3.  On the Taskmaster 8.1.0 computer, open datacap.xml and add the name of the application to be updated. For example, if the application name is MyApp, copy the MyApp folder to \datacap. 
 4.  The size of the database will affect how long the conversion will run. To shorten the duration, it is recommended that the databases be examined and the following be done:  * Backup all databases. 
      * Complete all batches. Remove all batch folders if they are not needed. 
      * The taskstats and debug tables contain statistic and debug information. Delete all rows. 
      * Any table whose name ends with st (de2kst, for example) is a statistic table and can have the rows deleted.
     
     
 5.  If the database uses a transaction log, verify that the logs can handle the volume of information. The volume is dependent on what was done in step 4. Consult the database admin for usage and configuration of the transaction logs. 
 6.  Start Datacap Studio on the workstation by clicking Start > All Programs > Datacap > Developer > Datacap Studio. 
 7.  In the Datacap Studio startup dialog that prompts to select an application, click Close. 
 8.  In Datacap Studio, click the Datacap Application Wizard icon. 
 9.  In the Application Wizard Overview window, click Next. 
 10. Select Convert a Taskmaster version 7.X application to Taskmaster 8 format. 
 11. In the Source Application dialog, select the application to be converted and the newly created \datacap\rrs\libs folder. 
 12. In the Target Database dialog, enter the database information that the updated application must use.
     Important: Each of the databases, Admin and Engine, must have information entered. Click the corresponding tab to enter database information. 
 13. Click Next and then Finish. The Application wizard displays a message to indicate a successful update, and whether the Application Wizard log must be reviewed for any errors or warnings. The log file is in 8.1.0 installation drive/datacap/MyApp. If there are no errors, if desired proceed to the following 8.0.1 to 8.1 conversion procedure


Converting an 8.0/8.0.1 application by using the Application Wizard 

To use the Application Wizard to convert an application from 8.0/8.0.1 to 8.1: 

 1.  Copy the entire folder of the application to be converted to the \datacap folder on the IBM Datacap Taskmaster Capture 8.1.0 computer. (Not necessary if the above 7.6 conversion was done) 
 2.  On the Taskmaster 8.1.0 computer, open datacap.xml and add the name of the application to be updated. For example, if the application name is MyApp, copy the MyApp folder to \datacap. (Not necessary if the above 7.6 conversion was done) 
 3.  If using Oracle or SQL, create a new database by using the creation scripts for each database type (admin, engine, and fingerprint).
     Important: The creation scripts are in the 8.1.0 installation drive/datacap/support folder. 
 4.  If using an MS-Access database, complete these steps:  1. On the Taskmaster 8.1.0 computer, copy AppWizardAdm.mdb, AppWizardEng.mdb, and AppWizardFingerprint.mdb from /datacap/dstudio/appwizard to a temporary folder. The databases being copied are blank, but they contain the Taskmaster 8.1.0 database table formats. If the existing batches are not needed in the converted application, a blank Engine database can be used. If the batches are needed, then complete the batches before converting the application. 
      2. Rename the three databases Adm, Eng, and Fingerprint in the temporary folder to the name of the application being converted. For example, if the application name is MyApp, rename the three databases to MyAppAdm.mdb, MyAppEng.mdb, and MyAppFingerprint.mdb. 
      3. If any of the version 8.0.1 databases were customized, any custom columns and new columns must be manually moved from the 8.0.1 databases to the 8.1.0 databases.
         Important: Ensure that the column names being added to the 8.1.0 databases match the column names in the 8.0.1 databases.
     
     
 5.  Start Datacap Studio on the workstation by clicking Start > All Programs > Datacap > Developer > Datacap Studio. 
 6.  In the Datacap Studio startup dialog that prompts to select an application, click Close. 
 7.  In Datacap Studio, click the Datacap Application Wizard icon. 
 8.  In the Application Wizard Overview window, click Next. 
 9.  Select Convert an 8.0.1 application to 8.1 format. 
 10. In the Source Application dialog, select the application to be converted. 
 11. In the 8.1 Target Database dialog, enter the database information that the updated application must use.
     Note: If using an MS-Access database, browse to the temporary folder where the databases were copied in step 4, and select the three databases.
     Important: Information for each of the databases: Admin, Engine, and Fingerprint must be entered. Click the corresponding tab to enter database information. 
 12. Click Next and then Finish. The Application Wizard displays a message to indicate a successful update and whether the Application Wizard log must be reviewed for any errors or warnings. The log file is in 8.1.0 installation drive\datacap\dstudio.
     Important: During the conversion of the application, Taskmaster makes the following modifications:  * Tasks that were previously mapped to use prelayout.aspx are now mapped to use verifine.aspx. 
      * Tasks that previously used project files are configured through the task setup panel. Access task setup by selecting the task on the Workflow page of the Administrator tab in the Taskmaster Web client, and clicking Setup. 
      * The databases in the temporary folder are merged with the databases in the application folder. The databases in the temporary folder now contain the 8.0.1 application data in the 8.1.0 tables.
     
     
 13. Copy the three databases in the temporary folder to the application folder and when prompted, select the Yes, overwrite existing files option. For example, the application folder c:\datacap\MyApp. 
 14. Start the Taskmaster Application Manager (Start > All Programs > Datacap > Administrator > Taskmaster > Taskmaster Application Manager) and confirm that the three databases are pointing to the correct data source.
     Tip: The Fingerprint database is configured on the Main tab, and the Administration and Engine databases are configured on the Taskmaster tab.  * For MS-Access databases:  * The Fingerprint database data source must be set to 8.1.0 installation drive/datacap/MyApp/MyAppFingerprint.mdb. Such as, data source=c:/datacap/MyApp/MyAppFingerprint.mdb. 
         * The Administration database DSN must be set to 8.1.0 installation drive/datacap/MyApp/MyAppAdm.mdb. Such as, DSN=c:/datacap/MyApp/MyAppAdm.mdb. 
         * The Engine database DSN must be set to 8.1.0 installation drive/datacap/MyApp/MyAppEng.mdb. Such as, DSN=c:/datacap/MyApp/MyAppEng.mdb.
        
        
     
     
 15. If necessary, change the path to the correct data source and restart the Taskmaster Server Manager on the Service tab of the Taskmaster Application Manager. 
 16. Restart Datacap Studio, log on to the application that was just converted, and confirm that it can connect to the Administration and Engine databases.