Title: IBM Open Mic on "Lotus Traveler High Availability" September 12, 2012 - United States

Text:
 EDUCATION

ABSTRACT
 IBM hosted an Open Mic conference call to discuss Lotus Traveler High Availability configuration on Wenesday September 12, 2012. It was having presentation of 1 hour followed by questions and answers. 

CONTENT
Here is the PDF presentation of Open Mic on "Lotus Traveler High Availability" 

Traveler HA Open Mic 12th Sept-12.pdf [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27036151&aid=2]Traveler HA Open Mic 12th Sept-12.pdf [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27036151&aid=1]



Q&A 
Q: Do we need to have additional licence for DB2 server for Traveler HA configuration and whether Traveler HA itself needs a licence ? 

A: For licensing queries, please contact IBM Sales team as in Open Mic we are only focusing on technical part of Traveler HA implementation. 



Q: Is it mandatory to use DB2 or MS-SQL if we want to use Traveler server in HA mode ? Also can we use old “ntsdb” in HA mode with some reduced functionality ? 

A: You can use either DB2 or MS-SQL if you want HA mode. Traditional “ntsdb” does not support HA mode. 



Q: If we are using Upgrade Pack 1, then it is mandatory to use HA ? Can we use Traveler Upgrade Pack 1 server in stand-alone mode ? 

A: The main intention of Upgrade Pack 1 is providing High Availability, however it can also work in stand-alone mode. If you use stand-alone mode server, then you don't need use DB2 or MS-SQL. 


Q: Once we migrate the traveler data to DB2, then can we go back to old “ntsdb” if we ever want to switch from HA to stand-alone mode ? 

A: Yes you can go back to old “ntsdb” if you do not want to continue in HA mode. However Traveler server will create a fresh “ntsdb” folder rather than migrating data back from DB2 to “ntsdb”. Use “travelerutil db remove” command to discontinue using DB2. Next time when Traveler server starts, it will start using native "ntsdb" database, 



Q: Can I install latest Traveler 8.5.3.3 on top of Upgrade Pack 1 ? What is difference between them exactly ? 
A: Don't install Traveler 8.5.3.3 on top of Upgrade Pack 1. Traveler 8.5.3.3 is only stand-alone mode server. Later separate maintenance release will provided for Traveler Upgrade Pack 1. 



Q: Earlier we used to run “Load Traveler -defrag” to defrag our “ntsdb” database. Now since the database is moved to DB2, so do we still need to run this command for maintenance ? 

A: Yes this can be used and this command will send commands to DB2 server to “Reorg” every table in DB2 database and thereby performing maintenance on DB2 database. 



Q: Is it must to have the DB2 server also in HA for a true HA ? 

A: For a true HA, especially if you have large number of users, then you should ideally be having DB2 server also in HA, so if one DB2 server fails then it can use another DB2 server. 
DB2 databases are extremely reliable and normally they won't fail, so initially you can have only single DB2 server and run it for 2-3 months and then decide if you really want to have DB2 server in HA. 



Q: Can Traveler HA work without load balancer just on DNS based failover ? 

A: Traveler HA must have the load balancer. It will not work just based on DNS failover. Load balancers have ability to redirect the traffic to another host if they don't get response from a particular host. DNS based failover can't do this. 



Q: For a true HA, is it mandatory to have to load balancers also in HA ? 

A: Normally there is nothing in the load balancer to fail as they just redirect the traffic and don't keep any data with them, so load balancer will not normally fail unless there is a network or ISP line failure. You can configure multiple load balancers if you want failover protection in them. 



Q: If we face any problems in connection with DB2 or MS-SQL, then how should I check the connection from Traveler server to DB2 or MS-SQL Server ? 

A: You can use the command “travelerutil db check” by going to “data\traveler\util” folder from command prompt and it will show you, if the connection to DB2/MS-SQL is successful. 



Q: How do I mark a particular Traveler server as “Out of Service” ? 

A: If you want to perform any maintenance on specific Traveler server, then you can mark it as “Out of Service” by giving the command “Tell Traveler available off” and once you finish the maintenance of that server, then you can bring it “In Service” by giving command “Tell Traveler available on”. 



Q: What's the benefit of using RDBMS database like DB2 or MS-SQL for Traveler HA ? 

A: Primarily the benefit is to have high availability and scalability supported by these databases. 



Q: Can we run HA on VMware running 64 bit Windows 2008 R2 ? 

A: Yes, you can run on VMware however it is recommended to have plenty of RAM and static resource allocation on VMware, otherwise you may face performance issues. 



Q: When we are setting up the Traveler server in HA then can we use the existing DB2 database which already exits? 

A: Setting up a new database would be best practice as it will be fresh database without any data. You can use the existing DB2 server if you already have.