Title: IBM Error # 10963 when running an aggregate command on a large dataset in SPSS - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I have been unable to get SPSS to complete an aggregate command on a reasonably large data file. The data file is comprised of 70 million 
cases/records for 350,000 individuals, with about 12 variables. When I run the aggregate command I get the following error message: 

There is memory for only 139313 cases in the aggregated file. 

Error # 10963 
There is not enough memory for all the cases in the aggregated file. 
The aggregated file is missing some cases. Rerun with more memory. 
This command not executed. 

I have sorted the file to be aggregated by the break variable. In addition, I have included the SET WORKSPACE command in my syntax to attempt to boost the memory allocation of SPSS. I have tried running the command both on my local machine and from a more powerful server. I have also changed the swap settings on my computer to allow all free hard drive space to be used for extra memory and I do not run any other applications while SPSS is processing. However, after many hours of processing, the analysis terminates and gives me the above error message. All other SPSS commands seem to work without a problem on the large data file and it is only the aggregate command which is proving problematic. 

Why is this happening? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
SPSS Development has reviewed this and determined that there is no defect evident in what you are seeing in running your aggregate syntax while using a large dataset. The job just requires more memory than can be given to it in a 32-bit Windows environment.

To resolve this you should sort the data and add a /PRESORTED to the AGGREGATE command.

If the subcommand is omitted, AGGREGATE builds the entire output file in memory. With /PRESORTED, it needs only enough memory for one output case.

RELATED INFORMATION
 IBM SPSS Help and Support [https://www.ibm.com/analytics/us/en/spss/spss-support/]




HISTORICAL NUMBER
 70407