Title: IBM HOw can we remove the space between two list objects in table cells? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 We have a report where 2 crosstabs are embedded in a table. When we run the report, there's a big gap between the cells. How do we remove that? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The problem with the HTML layout is that object sizes and positions tend to be "relative". So if you create a table with two columns, each cell will (by default) take up 50% of the available space. If your browser is maximized and your display is 1024x768, then each cell will take ~ 500 pixels. If, however, you browser is only taking a portion of the screen (say 600 pixels wide) then each cell will be 300 pixels. You'll notice that as you resize the window, the size of each cell will vary accordingly.

For a list or crosstab, each column will be assigned a width that is the greater of the specified column width or the width required to display the data.

Now lets say you put a list in each table cell. Say that list 1 ends up being 400pixels wide, and
list 2 is 200 pixels wide. That relative sizing will be maintained by the table, so if you run this report into your maximized browser, you'll see that first cell will take up 2/3 of the space, and the second cell will take up 1/3. That matches the relative size of the two list objects. If you resize that window, each cell will resize along with the window, but will maintain that 2/3:1/3 ratio until the cell sizes reach 400pixes and 200pixes respectively. At this point, the two lists will appear side-by-side, and a scroll bar will appear along the bottom of your browser. The table cell (naturally) can never be smaller then the objects in it.

Adjusting the alignment of the object in the table cell doesn't change any of this behavior, it just "pins" one or two sides of the list object to the side of the cell. All the scaleing occurs the same way. 

So one thing we can do now is take the list object in the left hand cell, and set the width of the entire list to "100%". What this means is that the width of the list will be 100% of the width of its container (which in this case is the table cell.) However, the list still has a static width of 400 pixels, and it won't make the list smaller then it needs to be, so what ends up happening is
that the cell gets a width of 400 pixels (which allows the list to be 400 pixels and still take up 100% of the width of the cell). Doing this will thus ensure that the first list is as far to the left as possible (since that's where the table starts), and the left alignment of the right table cell will ensure that the second list will appear directly beside it.

Note that this only works consistantly if none of the other width settings are set on the other list or table cells. Otherwise, one of the other settings may override what we did here.



Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Cognos Connection Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Report Studio 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1029199