Title: IBM Cognos Now! - Session Timeout - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 How to change Session Timeout 

SYMPTOM
Need to re-login

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Check the link below for more details : 

Release Notes Fix Pack 2 4.6.0.2


 * Changes > Session Timeout 
   IBM Cognos Now! allows you to set a session timeout with Session Timeout Configuration that is available as one of the system settings in the Administration Console of the IBM Cognos Now! Workbench. You can set a global timeout for IBM Cognos Now! and set a alternate timeout for a subset of the users. For information about the session timeout, see "Session Timeout Configuration Not Documented".
   
 * General Documentation Issues > Session Timeout Configuration Not Documented 
   In System Settings of the Administration Console of the IBM Cognos Now! Workbench, a Session Timeout Configuration setting is available that is not described in the documentation. Session Timeout Configuration allows you to set the timeout period for IBM Cognos Now! as well as specify a specific timeout for a group of users. When the session timeout occurs, IBM Cognos Now! displays a pop-up screen that informs the user that the session has expired and allows the user to re-enter the user name and password. 
   
   Note: Session timeout does not apply to a user logged in as Anonymous. 
   
   The following are the settings for the session timeout:
   
   Default Session Timeout :
   Specifies how long IBM Cognos Now! can be idle before users must log in again. Setting the default session timeout to 0 indicates that user sessions do not time out. The default is 60 minutes. 
   
   Alternate Session Timeout :
   Specifies how long IBM Cognos Now! can be idle before a specified list of users must log in again. The value that you specify for the alternate session timeout overrides the default session timeout for these users. Setting the alternate session timeout to 0 creates an infinite session for those users included in the user list for session timeout. The default value is 60 minutes.
   
   User List for Session Timeout :
   Specifies the users to which the alternate session timeout applies. To add users, click Add. To remove a user, select the user then click Remove User. 
   
   

RELATED INFORMATION
#Session Timeout [http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/cnow/v4r6m0/index.jsp?topic=/com.ibm.swg.im.cognos.releasenotes_sbi.4.6.0.2.doc/releasenotes_sbi_id69sessiontimeout.html]