Title: IBM Changes in the Siebel activities in WebSphere Cast Iron version 6.1.x.x when compared to the earlier versions (6.0.0.x and earlier) - United States

Text:
Cast Iron; Siebel; migration; CastIron TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 
* What are the Siebel objects/interfaces supported in WebSphere Cast Iron version 6.1.x.x?

* How do I configure the functionality of the Siebel activities present in Cast Iron version 6.0.0.x/5.x/4.x with the current version (6.1.x.x) of Cast Iron?

* How can I use a project containing Siebel activities created in Cast Iron version 6.0.0.x/5.x/4.x in Cast Iron version 6.1.x.x? 

CAUSE
Restructuring of activities of the Siebel connector in Cast Iron version 6.1.x.x

ANSWER
Following are the supported Siebel objects/interfaces: 

Siebel Object/Interface Cast Iron version 
6.0.0.x/5.x/4.x Cast Iron version 6.1.x.x Integration objects Yes Yes Business objects / business components No Yes Business services No Yes  

Siebel activities comparison: 

 

Siebel Object/Interface Cast Iron version 
6.0.0.x/5.x/4.x

Activity name Cast Iron version
6.1.x.x

Activity name(s) Integration objects 1. Invoke
1. Create Objects
2. Update Objects
3. Query Objects
4. Delete Objects

Note: Select Integration Object as the object type when configuring the activity. Integration objects 1. Receive 1. Get Created Objects
2. Get Updated Objects
3. Get Deleted Objects

Note: Select Integration Object as the object type when configuring the activity. Business objects / business components Not Applicable 1. Create Objects
2. Update Objects
3. Query Objects
4. Delete Objects
5. Get Created Objects
6. Get Updated Objects
7. Get Deleted Objects

Note: Select Business Object / Business Component as the object type when configuring the activity. Business services Not Applicable 1. Execute Business Service  

Supported scenarios for projects containing Siebel activities from Cast Iron version 6.0.0.x/5.x/4.x 

 1. Open an earlier project (6.0.0.x or earlier) containing Siebel activities in Studio 6.0.0.x and then publish the project on the appliance version 6.1.x.x or later. The deployed project works as expected. 
 2. Take a par file (built using 6.0.0.x or an earlier version of studio) containing Siebel activities and deploy it directly on the appliance version 6.1.x.x or later. The project works as expected. 
 3. Upgrade a 6.0.0.x appliance (running Siebel projects) to the appliance 6.1.x.x. All the projects containing Siebel activities work as expected. 
 4. Open an earlier project (6.0.0.x or earlier) containing Siebel activities in WebSphere Cast Iron Studio version 6.1.x.x or later. To migrate this open project, complete the following steps.

Migrating a project containing Siebel activities created in Cast Iron version 6.0.0.x/5.x/4.x, to be used in Cast Iron version 6.1.x.x 

 1. Ensure that you take a backup of the project. Open the project in WebSphere Cast Iron studio version 6.1.x.x or later. 
 2. Make a note of the objects used in each of the Siebel activities present in the orchestrations of the project. 
 3. Delete each of the Siebel activities present in the orchestrations. 
 4. Create the Siebel endpoint and the required activities. Also, complete the necessary mappings for each of the activities. 
 5. Save the project and complete the basic testing to validate the changes.


Note : A project/orchestration containing Siebel activities available in Cast Iron versions 6.0.0.x/5.x/4.x and also Siebel activities present in Cast Iron version 6.1.x.x is not a valid scenario. The project should contain either the Siebel activities from 6.0.0.x/5/x/4.x or from 6.1.x.x and later versions.