Title: IBM Error: The file associated with this report cannot be opened. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Impromptu reports publish without a problem, but when attempting to view them, on the Web the following error message is generated: 

> The file associated with this report cannot be opened. Please notify your Administrator 
The report was set to Produce the following formats: PDF, Excel, Delimited text, and HTML. When this was changed to generate only PDF, a different error message is generated: > Application Error The following error has occurred An internal error has occurred Please contact your report administrator 
The Application Event Viewer log contains the following: > The description for Event ID ( 0 ) in Source ( IWRcer3:ImpServer ) cannot be found. The local computer may not have the necessary registry information or message DLL files to display messages from a remote computer. The following information is part of the event: , 3156(fc0), 2003/09/25 12:10:31.656; Unable to retrieve printer information in PDFPublisher::Publish. Report: d:\Program Files\Cognos\Report Store\Operating Units\apps\opun0040.imr . 




RESOLVING THE PROBLEM

The local system account did not have privileges to the local printer, when changed the Cognos IWR Service Manager to start with "This account" which was made to point to an account which was part of the server administrator, stopped and restarted the service, Errors no longer were generated when running Reports.

1. In the Control Panel locate Services.

2. Double-click Cognos IWR Service Manager and go to the Logon tab.

3. Select This Account and browse to the account logged on to the server (assuming is part of the administrators group)

4. After changing the service to that account, stop and restart Cognos IWR Service Manager.

5. Open a new session of the browser and try again.

If this works, it indicates that the "Local system account" does not have appropriate permissions for the default printer. To set those permissions, contact your system administrator.

Note: This error can also occur if access to a network printer becomes unavailable. Check to see if the network printer being used is available/

 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos Series 7 Upfront 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1002061