Title: IBM Automatically adding Test Cases to the actively running Test Suite Execution record in RQM - United States

Text:
RQM; Test Cases; add; TSER TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Can you automatically add Test Cases to the actively running Test Suite Execution records (TSER) in IBM Rational Quality Manager (RQM)? 

CAUSE
You are required to modify some test cases with additonal steps during execution as and when you get more clarity on the test cases based on the incoming requirements.

ANSWER
No. After starting test suite execution, even you add test case to test suite, current suite execution will not have any effect. You need to cancel the current test suite execution and start the suite execution again. If you cancel one test case execution from the suite execution, whole suite execution will be canceled. Each execution creates new Result set 

However you are allowed to append additional Test steps to the Test Cases which are part of the current TSER record under execution (Manual Execution only)


For Example:


 1. Create a Test Suite-1 
 2. Added 3 Test Cases namely, TC1, TC2, TC3 
 3. Each Test script consists of one Test Step for now before adding these TestScripts to each of the Test Case respectively....


 *  TSr1 added to TC1 
 *  TSr2 added to TC2 
 *  TSr3 added to TC3



NOTE: Each Test script (TSr) contains only one Test step for now.. 


4. Added these Test scripts to TestCases and the Test Cases are added to TestSuite-1 

5. Executed the TestSuite-1 execution and triggered the " Start Manual Test" and completed the TC1 execution within it. 

6. Now come back to Test script 2(TRs2) and add few more Test steps, before proceeding further... 

7. Get back to "Execution" >> "Test Suite Execution Console" (See screenshot below) and select for run 

[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21958095&aid=1] [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21958095&aid=1] 

8. Now, click on " Start Manual Test" run for the TestCase-2 which contains the modified Testscript (TSr2) and you could see the modified / added Test steps getting appended. 


NOTE: Please note that any new TestCases / Test scripts cannot be added to the existing TestSuite run.