Title: IBM Processes Hung in the Impromptu Web Reports Server Administration - United States

Text:
server administration, processes hung, delete queue TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Receiving error message when running prompted reports in Upfront. 

Checking the Interactive queue in IWR Server Administration, there were many processes listed as cancelling, but could not be deleted. 

SYMPTOM
GeTemplate iwr_modifyprompts.utml failed. Reason: The content request'DescribeNewsItem' has failed. The Cognos BI provider (IWR) failed withthese messages: Timed out waiting for prompt request to come back...


CAUSE
The job db file ( iwr73job.db, which is located in "\Program Files\Cognos\cer4\iwr\database" ) is corrupted.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Recreate the job db file.

Steps:There are two options to replace the job db file. This first set of steps uses Configuration Manager:

 1.  In Windows, start Services. Click Start, Control Panel, Administrative Tools, Services.
 2.  Stop the Cognos IWR Service.
 3.  Stop the ObjectStore Service.
 4.  Open Windows explorer, and browse to the following location: "\Program Files\Cognos\cer4\iwr\database"
 5.  Copy the db files that you wish to replace to another location and then delete the original ones from the database folder.
 6.  Start the ObjectStore Service.
 7.  Open Configuration Manager and open the current configuration.
 8.  Browse to the following location in Configuration Manager: "IBM Cognos Impromptu Web Reports / Data Store"
 9.  Click Apply on this selection.
 10. Start the Cognos IWR Service.

In case for some reason recreating the job db using Configuration Manager does not work, try using the command prompt:

 1. In Windows, start Services. Click Start, Control Panel, Administrative Tools, Services.
 2. Stop the Cognos IWR Service.
 3. Stop the ObjectStore Service.
 4. Open Windows explorer and browse to the following location: "\Program Files\Cognos\cer4\iwr\database"
 5. Copy the db files that you wish to replace to another location and then delete the original ones from the database folder.
 6. Start the ObjectStore Service.
 7. Open a Command Prompt window, and browse to "\Program Files\Cognos\cer4\bin"
 8. Type the following command: "iwcreatedb -job" to recreate the job db. This command can be replaced with: "iwcreatedb" to recreate all the db files.
 9. Start the Cognos IWR Service.

 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Transformer Business Analytics Cognos Series 7 Impromptu Web Reports Business Analytics Cognos Series 7 Upfront 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1022252