Title: IBM Properties dialog in chart editor not opening in IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I'm using SPSS Statistics on a Windows platform, generating some standard graphs. I can double-click on the ouput to open the Chart Editor for a particular graph, but when I try to modify any of the Chart Properties, the Properties dialog box doesn't seem to open. I can double-click on a chart element, or right-click on one and select Properties, or select Edit->Properties, or <ctrl>-T. I get no errors, but the Properties dialog doesn't appear to open.

What can I do? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
One possibility is that the Properties dialog has been moved off-screen -- perhaps you had been using a dual-monitor setup -- and that position was recorded in the system registry. In other words, the dialog box is opening fine, there's just no way to see it or grab it by hand. 

There are a couple of different methods to get it back. 

Option 1: 

Open the Chart Editor and select Edit->Properties (or <CTRL>-T). 

Immediately (i.e., while the "missing" Properties dialog box has focus as the active window, assuming it's open but not visible) press <ALT>-<SPACE>. This will open the system menu for the active window. 

Press 'M' -- this will select Move from the open System menu. 

You may now be able to use the arrow keys to move the Properties dialog into view. Press Enter to "release" the dialog box once it's in place. 

Note: the method described above may work on any dialog box or window that you think you should be seeing on screen but aren't. Some users have been able to use it to restore the main chart editor itself to visibility. 


Option 2: 


Click Start->Run and type 'regedit'.
Press Enter.
The Registry Editor will open. It looks very much like the old Windows Explorer, with an outline on the left and the content of folders on the right.

Click on the + next to a folder on the left to "open" it.


For versions 18.0 and earlier: 


Open HKEY_CURRENT_USER.
Inside that, open Software.
Inside that, open JavaSoft.
Inside that, open Prefs.
Inside that, open com.
Inside that, open spss.
Inside that, open charteditor.
Inside that, open user.
Inside that, open palettewin.


For versions 19.0 and later: 

Open HKEY_CURRENT_USER.
Inside that, open Software.
Inside that, open JavaSoft.
Inside that, open Prefs.
Inside that, open com.
Inside that, open ibm.
Inside that, open /S/P/S/S.
Inside that, open Statistics.
Inside that, open <your version>.
Inside that, open charteditor.
Inside that, open user.
Inside that, open palettewin.

In the area on the right, you may need to scroll down to find these two items: xlocation and ylocation. Right-click on each one in turn and choose Delete. Confirm the deletion.

Close the Registry Editor, and re-launch Statistics. Generate a Chart, Open the Chart Editor, and try to open Properties. It should now open. 

NOTE: If the "charteditor" item is not present in the registry outline under <your version>, you may need to close SPSS Statistics first (after saving your work) and then refreshing the Registry Editor (F5 or View->Refresh. 

If neither of the above options works, the next recommendation would be to uninstall and reinstall the software. Finally, if that doesn't resolve the problem, please contact IBM SPSS Technical Support.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 70930