Title: IBM Scheduled reports fail after password update: CM-REQ-4159 CM-CAM-4005 Unable to authenticate. Check your security directory server connection and confirm the credentials entered at login. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 After logging on to Cognos Connection successfully after a password change, previously scheduled reports will fail, while other non-scheduled reports will run successfully during this session. 

SYMPTOM
Error message when schedules fail: 

CM-REQ-4159 Content Manager returned an error in the response header. The error "cmAuthenticateFailed CM-CAM-4005 Unable to authenticate. Check your security directory server connection and confirm the credentials entered at login" can be found in the response SOAP header. CM-REQ-4342 An error has occurred with the client.


CAUSE
For performance reasons, the automatic renewal is only performed the first time a user logs in each time period (restarting the Cognos services also resets this check). 

 
The time period in this case has been set to 24 hours, but it's not guaranteed to occur at the beginning of a day. The credential renewal check occurs on the first user login within the given time period (24 hours). For this reason, the renewal could happen at any point during a day depending on when that time period started. 

The time period for automatic credential renewal has been set to 24 hours to avoid a scenario where the Content Store is hammered with queries for the users stored trusted credential every single time a user logs in. In a case where you know the users password has changed and they have reports scheduled to run within 24 hours, it's safest to manually renew the credentials within Cognos Connection. 


ENVIRONMENT
Issue occurs in both single server and multi-server distributed environments



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
For performance reasons, by default the trusted credentials are only automatically renewed once a day. When you change your password, you should renew your credentials manually. Otherwise, if the credentials are used before they are automatically renewed, they might not work. 


Steps for manually renewing credentials:
1) In IBM Cognos Connection, click the my area options button --> 'My Preferences'.
2) On the Personal tab, under Credentials, click 'Renew the credentials'.

Additional information on trusted credentials can be found in the Administration and Security guide here:
http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSEP7J_10.2.1/com.ibm.swg.ba.cognos.ug_cra.10.2.1.doc/c_trustedcredentials.html%23TrustedCredentials?lang=en [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSEP7J_10.2.1/com.ibm.swg.ba.cognos.ug_cra.10.2.1.doc/c_trustedcredentials.html%23TrustedCredentials?lang=en]