Title: IBM How to change LDAP server name in the SSC? - United States

Text:
ssc; LDAP; Connect to LDAP server; change LDAP TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
How to change the LDAP server used by the SSC and other Sametime servers? 

ANSWER
Please note that the below steps can be used only if the following two conditions apply: 
a) You are moving to a new/different server but using the same directory. For example, if you were using Tivoli Directory previously and will be using the same directory but on a new server. 

b) You have a full deployment of Sametime servers like SSC, Community server, Sametime Proxy server, Meetings server, Media server. However, if you do not have any of the other servers, you can stop after step 1. 

Here are the steps to follow in order to change the LDAP server in the SSC and the rest of the Sametime servers: 

1. From ISC > Sametime System Console > Sametime Prerequisites > Connect to LDAP Server, Edit existing LDAP Deployment, fill the new LDAP info, click next, check Configure advanced LDAP settings, and click Next and fill detail LDAP settings

2. Synchronize the Nodes and restart all servers. 
SSC should push out this change to all servers. If this does not update all fields, we will need to check all fields and update them manually. We will do this in the following steps. 

3. On Sametime Community server access the STConfig.nsf from the Domino administrator client. Click on the "LDAP Server" document, make sure the hostname and Bind user info is correct, if anything is incorrect please correct it. 

4. On the Sametime community server access the Directory assistance database (da.nsf) from the Domino administrator client. Open the LDAP document and make sure all the new information has been pushed down from the SSC, if anything is missing or incorrect please correct it. 

5. Verify Federated Repository (ISC > Security > Global Security > Configure) has the correct information. 

6. Correct productConfig.properties files on the Sametime Proxy server, Meetings server and the Media server. If you still see the old LDAP server specified, please change that to the new LDAP server. 

7. After you have made all the changes Synchronize the Nodes and restart all servers. 

If for any reason you get an error when completing step (1) above then you can substitute it with the following step:

1) In the ISC go to Security > Global Security > Federated Repository > click on repository name in the table > Change the "Primary Hostname" to the new LDAP server. 

- If this does not start an automatic synchronization, then synchronize all the Nodes 
- Restart all the ST servers

If you run into any issues, please open a problem report with the IBM technical support team.