Title: IBM Calendar entries show up approx 12 hours ahead only in the time slot view - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM
User is on the 8.5.1 client, all of his calendar entries show up with the am/pm switched. It shows up fine in the summary view, but not in the time slot view. 

All of the times show up correct in the summary view which is the default for the day at a glance view. This is why it shows correctly because if you change the day at a glance view to view as time slot, it shows incorrectly for AM/PM times. 

For example, if a meeting is scheduled at 1PM EST on Jan 5, it is showing at 1AM EST Jan 6 which is twelve hours ahead. If you switch to the summary view, the problem is not reproduced. The problem is only reproduced on a single machine. The following troubleshooting has no affect.

TROUBLESHOOTING: 

1. This user has a local mail file copy, so at first I ran a fixup and compact on the local mail file 
2. Ran a update of all the views using CNTRL + SHFT + F9 
3. Tried refreshing and replacing the design template on the client. 
4. Uninstalled the client and reinstalled still no success. 
5. Able to open user's calendar on a different machine and everything showed up fine 
6. Set up a VM test machine and installed 8.5.1 and set up this user and it worked fine 
7. Uninstalled notes again and deleted the entire IBM folder out of program files and reinstalled, still no success 
8. Set up the user on a older client and design (8.02) and the view showed up correctly. 
9. Tried upgrading from that version to 8.5.1 and again the view shows incorrectly. 
10. Tried uninstalling the client again and deleted all registry files and any files located on the C: drive that were found with the search option of 'lotus'. Reinstalled the client after all that and still no success. 



SYMPTOM
Calendar entries appear 12 hours head.


CAUSE
OS time zone settings are not set correctly within the Windows registry



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Reset the OS time zone. 

To do this, close the Notes client. 

Then open the time zone dialog box and switch to a different time zone. Apply these changes. 

Now, switch the time zone back to the original time zone and apply the changes. 

Open Notes and switch to the calendar and the issue should be resolved. If not, please verify all registry keys relating to time zone manipulation and verify they are correct. You may also copy these registry setting from a working PC and copy them into the PC where the problem is seen to make sure the registry keys on the problematic PC are not corrupt or damaged.