Title: IBM Updated .MSI Files In German and English For Organizer 6.1 - United States

Text:
 DOWNLOADABLE FILES

ABSTRACT
 This document contains URLs to updated .MSI Files in German and English for Organizer 6.1. 

DOWNLOAD DESCRIPTION
The conversion utility (provided by Randsync) is included in the Organizer 6.1 install program. This utility was previously provided in the \EXTRAS directory on the Organizer 6.0 CD. These updated .MSI files are for customers who have a problem installing the English or German Organizer 6.1 in Windows 2000 or XP, when one or more of the following conditions exist: -- You get an error message about memory during the Organizer 6.1 installation. -- You are installing in a mixed environment (German Organizer 6.1 on a non-German operating system, or English Organizer 6.1 on a non-English operating system). -- You have a previous version of Organizer already installed. NOTE: This information also applied to the Windows XP operating system. The updated German and English language .MSI files were modified to prevent a silent install of the Randsync conversion utility on Windows 2000 and XP, eliminate the error message, and allow the Organizer installation to complete successfully. NOTE: After installing the update, the functionality to convert Outlook 97/98, ACT! 3.x, Sidekick 97/98, and Day-Timer Organizer 98 files to Organizer will not work. The conversion utility is provided by a third party and is not supported in all operating system environments. For example, the German conversion utility doesn't work in Windows 2000. 

PREREQUISITES
Windows operating system.

INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS
IMPORTANT: By downloading and using this Code, you agree to these terms and conditions: The software samples, updates and fixes ("Code") available in this archive or on this web site for this Program are copyrighted materials. By clicking the download link below, you agree that the Code is provided under, and is subject to, the terms and conditions of the license agreement(s) which accompanied or were contained in the copy or copies of the Program for which you are obtaining the Code. You are not authorized to install or use the Code except as part of a Program for which you have a valid Proof of Entitlement or other authorization as specified in such license agreement(s). You further agree that you will comply with all applicable laws and export regulations. In the steps below, the reference to means German or English. TO INSTALL FROM THE ORGANIZER 6.1 CD: 1. Double-click the URL below to download for the appropriate language (English or German) .ZIP file to a Temp directory. 2. Unzip to obtain the following two files ("IBM Lotus Organizer 6 - .msi" and "English-Deutsch.msi README"). 3. Create a folder named "OrgPatch" on your computer on a drive with a minimum of 50 MB free space (for example, C:\OrgPatch). Do NOT uninstall or remove any Organizer program files prior to your actual installation. 4. Run the following command (without quotes): "xcopy X:\*.* Y:\OrgPatch /s" - where X is the letter of your CD-ROM drive for the IBM Organizer 6.1 CD, and Y is the drive where you created the OrgPatch directory. This copies the CD image of IBM Lotus Organizer 6.1 to your local directory. 5. Make a backup of the original "IBM Lotus Organizer 6 - .msi" file present inside the Y:\OrgPatch directory. 6. Save the NEW "IBM Lotus Organizer 6 - .msi" file to the installables directory (such as Y:\OrgPatch). This overwrites the existing .MSI file. 7. Install Organizer 6.1 by double-clicking SETUP.EXE, present in the installables directory (such as Y:\OrgPatch). TO INSTALL ORGANIZER 6.1 IF DOWNLOADED VIA the eSD / WEB SITE 1. Prior to the download, create a folder named "OrgPatch" on your computer on a drive with a minimum of 50 MB free space. 2. Download the Organizer 6.1 executable file to a Temp folder. 3. Double-click the downloaded file, click Next, and select radio button 2 (Unpack and Don't Remove Files). This enables the Change button. 4. Click Change and browse to the OrgPatch folder you created in Step 1. Click Next to unpack the downloaded file. 5. After the file is unpacked, make a backup of the original "IBM Lotus Organizer 6 - .msi" file present inside the OrgPatch directory. Double-click the URL below to download the appropriate language (English or German) .ZIP file to a Temp directory. 7. Unzip to obtain the following two files ("IBM Lotus Organizer 6 - .msi" and "English-Deutsch.msi README"). 8. Save the NEW "IBM Lotus Organizer 6 - .msi" file to the installables directory (such as Y:\OrgPatch). This overwrites the existing .MSI file. 7. Install Organizer 6.1 by clicking SETUP.EXE, present in the installables (OrgPatch) directory. 

DOWNLOAD PACKAGE


DOWNLOAD RELEASE DATE LANGUAGE SIZE(Bytes) Download Options IBM Lotus Organizer 6 - Deutsch 1/14/2004 German 2080000 FTP [ftp://public.dhe.ibm.com/software/lotus/fixes/SmartSuite/Org6-Deutsch.zip] IBM Lotus Organizer 6 - English 1/14/2004 US English 2020000 FTP [ftp://public.dhe.ibm.com/software/lotus/fixes/SmartSuite/Org6-English.zip]