Title: IBM Db2 Continuing Support - all versions - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT LIFECYCLE

ABSTRACT
 IBM is pleased to announce a new support option available to you when your software reaches End of Service (EOS). IBM will offer Continuing Support for Db2 and Db2 Connect across all versions and editions (Note: Initial announcement only covered v 9.7 and 10.1 post Sep 2017). This offering will provide you with continued access to the same knowledgeable global Support team you are working with today. 

CONTENT
IBM is pleased to announce a new support option available to you when your software reaches End of Service (EOS). IBM will offer Continuing Support for Db2 and Db2 Connect across all versions and editions (Note: Initial announce only covered v 9.7 and 10.1 post Sep 2017). This offering will provide you with continued access to the same knowledgeable global Support team you are working with today.

World-Class Software Support

Under your IBM Passport Advantage agreement's (International Passport Advantage Agreement or International Passport Advantage Express Agreement) Software Subscription and Support (S&S) terms, you receive comprehensive cross-platform technical assistance from a team of highly skilled Support experts. Additionally, you get flexible upgrade protection, access to the latest software versions and releases, remote technical support, 24 x 7 support for business-critical outages, online self-help resources, and unlimited electronic and voice access (where available) to world-class global IBM Software Support Centers.

Continuing Support Option
Continuing Support extends support for your software beyond its EOS date. When your software versions reach their End of Service date and support is no longer available through standard Software S&S, you now have the option for Continuing Support and no longer need to tackle support issues on your own.


Continuing Support Program Benefits

This exciting offering allows you to enjoy many of the S&S benefits that you have told us matter most to you, including:

· 7 days, 24-hour support for mission critical emergencies (Severity 1)
· Provided by voice in most countries.
· Provided in English, with the local language accommodated when possible.
· Remote problem analysis and assistance during normal country business hours in your time zone.
· Support for routine, short duration installation and usage questions.
· Response time objective of two hours during prime shift for voice and electronic problem submissions.
· Response objective for critical/emergency problems during off-shift hours is two hours.
· Unlimited number of technical support incidents.
· Access to documentation, technotes and other online product material.
· Access to existing available fixes created before the product's EOS date to correct known defects.

The Continuing Support offering does not include:
· Voice and electronic access support for code-related problems.
· Development analysis of new defects.
· Development of or packaging fixes that are not already available.
· Support for Supporting Programs and third party components.
· Infrastructure that are not included in the software version’s Hardware and Software Requirement page.

Program Participation

To receive Continuing Support, you only need to maintain active S&S for licenses deployed for the software. If you are not current on S&S, please contact us (askCS@us.ibm.com) to discuss reinstatement options. 

Complete Coverage for Mission Critical Installations

In addition to Continuing Support, IBM still provides the option for Service Extension (SE). Customers will have the choice between Continuing Support and Service Extension. For mission critical installations, it is highly recommended that you continue to pro-actively purchase a Service Extension to receive full defect and development support assistance. By adding this offering, you will be maintaining the same full defect support coverage you received before the End of Service date, further protecting your installation. If you require development or defect support assistance after the End of Service for any version, including during the life of Continuing Support or with an active Upgrade Bridge contract, you will be required to purchase a Service Extension at that time at IBM's specified charge in order to receive such support. Contact your IBM sales representative for more information, or to purchase these options.

[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg22002945&amp;aid=1]
FAQs

1. Why should I take advantage of Continuing Support?
Continuing Support provides flexibility for you to remain up and running on your software version with non-defect Support until you are able to upgrade to the latest version. Continuing Support provides uninterrupted access to many of the benefits of S&S and is more affordable than other options, such as a Service Extension or Total Content Ownership.

2. What is the cost of Continuing Support and how do I buy it?
Continuing Support is available when you maintain active S&S. To avoid possible delays in receiving Support, you are encouraged to email askcs@us.ibm.com [askcs@us.ibm.com] or your Sales contact.

3. I am on a software version which is out of support, and would like to benefit from this offering.
Continuing Support is now available to clients running Db2 and Db2 Connect - any version and any edition. To learn more about Continuing Support for your installations, please contact your local sales representative or email inquiries to askcs@us.ibm.com [askcs@us.ibm.com]

4. Are special builds included with Continuing Support?
Continuing Support assistance provides you with access to pre-existing and available fixes. Special builds will NOT be created as part of this offering. If a special build is required, you will need first to purchase and sign a contract for a Service Extension or a Total Content Ownership (TCO) [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21180416].

5. Should I purchase a Service Extension (SE) instead of relying on Continuing Support assistance?
If your business requires the same comprehensive full-defect coverage it relied on before the EOS date, you will want to purchase a SE, if available. A SE is recommended for maximum coverage for your mission critical installations. 

6. What if I have already purchased a Service Extension (SE) for my software licenses?
You can take advantage of Continuing Support upon expiry of your Service Extension.

7. How long will Continuing Support be available?
IBM may withdraw or discontinue Continuing Support for the Programs by providing at least twelve (12) months’ prior notice of such withdrawal or discontinuance. 

For more information
To get more information about the Continuing Support offering, email us at askcs@us.ibm.com [askcs@us.ibm.com]