Title: IBM WITHDRAWN:  MA5G: MQSeries Client for Mac OS - United States

Text:
ma5g; willow; technology; mqseries; websphere; mq; client; mac; os; business; integration; supportpac DOWNLOADABLE FILES

ABSTRACT
 This SupportPac was provided by Willow Technologies Inc. 

DOWNLOAD DESCRIPTION
An MQI client is a component of the MQSeries product that can be installed on its own, usually on a separate machine from the Base product and Server. You can run an MQSeries application on an MQI client and it can interact, by means of a communications protocol, with one or more MQI servers and connect to their queue managers. 

An application that you want to run in the MQSeries client environment must first be linked with the relevant client library. When the application issues an MQI call, the MQSeries client code directs the request to a queue manager, where it is processed and from where a reply is sent back to the MQSeries client. 

The link between the application and the MQSeries client code is established dynamically at runtime, except in the case of DOS, when it is a static link. 

POSSIBLE USES
Using MQI clients is an efficient way of implementing MQSeries messaging and queuing. You can have an application that uses the MQI running on one machine and the queue manager running on a different machine, either physical or virtual. The benefits of doing this are: 

There is no need for a full MQSeries implementation on the client machine; for example, it could be a DOS or Windows 3.1 platform. 
- Memory/storage requirements on the client system are usually reduced. 
- System administration requirements are reduced. 
- An MQSeries application running on a client can connect to multiple queue managers on different systems. 

You can run normal MQSeries applications on a workstation where you have installed the MQSeries client. 

If the application connects to more than one queue manager concurrently, or if it uses a queue manager name with an asterisk (*) on an MQCONN call, the application will have to be changed if you want to link to the queue manager libraries instead of the client libraries, as this function will not be available. 

The application on the MQSeries client must be linked to the client library, rather than to the MQI library. 

To view the complete portfolio of WebSphere MQ SupportPacs please visit the WebSphere MQ SupportPacs homepage:
http://www-1.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?rs=977&uid=swg27007205 [http://www-1.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?rs=977&uid=swg27007205]


PREREQUISITES
MQSeries server

INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS
There are no installation instructions associated with this SupportPac. The offering was available via the third parties web site only.

DOWNLOAD PACKAGE


Download RELEASE DATE LANGUAGE SIZE(Bytes) Download Options Willowtech Web Site 1/30/97 US English 500 HTTP [http://www.willowtech.com] 
TECHNICAL SUPPORT
 Category 4 SupportPacs are provided by third party suppliers (for example, customers, business partners, vendors) and not from IBM. The material is provided without any warranty or support from IBM. Any special support arrangements may be described within any downloaded material or on the third party supplier's Web site. 

By making any material available for downloading from this site, IBM is making no endorsement of any of these third party suppliers, or of their products. 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 WMQ MQ