Title: IBM Cognos Incentive Compenation Management 8.0.3 Enhancements - United States

Text:
 RELEASE NOTES

ABSTRACT
 This document outlines the new features and enhancements that were added to this release of IBM Cognos Incentive Compensation Management. 

CONTENT
Audit Log | Calculations | General | Import Data | Portal Accessr | Presenter | Scheduler | Task Manager | Workflow Manager 

Calculations 

Support Case # Type Client Version Date Title [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27039295&amp;aid=1] Enhancement 8.0.3 October 11, 2013 Auto-join source to any additional source Description: Users can now use an Auto Join button to join any source to any additional source. When the Auto Join button is clicked any matching columns between the two sources will be joined. 

Steps:
 1. In Composer, create a calculation. 
 2. In step 2 of the Calculation Wizard, add a number of data sources. 
 3. In the Add Data Source pane, select any data source but the first one. 
 4. In the Define Restrictions pane, from the Join With drop-down list, select the source you want to join the selected source with. 
 5. Click Auto Join.



Portal Access Support Case # Type Client Version Date Title 10024266 Enhancement 8.0.3 October 11, 2013 Portal Access group names sorted alphabetically Description: The names of Portal Access groups within a folder will now be sorted alphabetically. 

Steps:
 1. In Portal Access, click the Groups tab. 
 2. Add a folder. 
 3. Add portal access groups to the folder.
    Notice the groups are sorted alphabetically.



Scheduler 

Support Case # Type Client Version Date Title 10026245 Enhancement 8.0.3 October 11, 2013 Read-only security for the Scheduler module Description: Users can now have view and edit permission for the Scheduler module or view-only permission. When a user has view-only permission for Scheduler, they will only be able to view the Scheduler module and run tasks; however, the user must also have run permission for the Calculate module to run a calculation task. 

Steps:
 1. Go to Admin > Manage Roles. 
 2. Select or create a new role. 
 3. Expand Scheduler. 
 4. Right-click on Edit and select Grant to allow the user to make changes to the Scheduler module. 
 5. Right-click on View and select Grant to allow the user to view the Scheduler module.

Support Case # Type Client Version Date Title 10026245 Enhancement 8.0.3 October 11, 2013 Set scheduler properties from the client Description: Users are now able to set Scheduler properties from with the Scheduler module. Users can decide to stop a scheduler process when an error is encountered, set the maximum run time for external tools and set if external tools are stopped when they exceed the run time. Users can also select to email Scheduler warning messages to specified users. Users must have been granted edit permission for the Scheduler module in order to be able to set Scheduler properties.

Steps: 
 1. In Scheduler, click the Properties icon in the toolbar. 
 2. Select the Stop Process on Error check box to have the whole process aborted when an error is encountered on a task. 
 3. Select the External Tool Maximum Run Time check box and type the maximum time you want Scheduler to allot for an external tool to run. 
 4. Select the Stop External Tool on Timeout check box if you want the external tool to no longer run after it has exceeded the maximum run time. 
 5. Select the Email a Warning Message check box if you want Scheduler to email users when Scheduler encounters a problem, completes successfully, or completed with errors. 
 6. In the Email Addresses field, type the email addresses of the users you want to be notified. 
 7. 

 * NOTE: When changes are made to the Scheduler properties, the Scheduler Service must be restarted.

Support Case # Type Client Version Date Title [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27039295&amp;aid=1] Enhancement 8.0.3 October 11, 2013 Right-click changes row focus Description: When users right-click in Scheduler, the item they right-clicked will now be highlighted. This allows users to see what item was selected. 

Steps:
 1. In Scheduler. right-click an item.
    Notice the item you right-clicked is highlighted in blue. 
 2. Select an item from the menu that is displayed.
    Notice the item you right-clicked is highlighted in grey.



Task Manager 

Support Case # Type Client Version Date Title 10024451 Enhancement 8.0.3 October 11, 2013 Auto-generated emails to administrators contain model name Description: When administrators receive emails notifying them of task completions, the model name is displayed in the subject and body of the email message. 

Steps:
 1. Configure SMTP settings in the IBM Cognos Incentive Compensation Management Windows Service configuration file. 
 2. In Task Manager, generate a task. 
 3. Open the email sent to the administrator.