Title: IBM Reference class can not be forward engineered - United States

Text:
reference; class; java; generate; code; 1136366 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Reference class can not be forward engineered 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
QUESTION:
Why am I unable to generate code for some of the classes in my model? When I attempt to do so a warning is generated in the Rose Log that reads as follows:

'WARNING: Component Component View: <<Component Name>> - Reference class can not be forward engineered'


ANSWER:
This happens because you are trying to generate code for a class that has been designated as a reference class. Reference classes are not intended to have code generated from them. Reference classes are used by other classes in the model. You might use the reference class as a return type or a parameter type on an operation or you might derive a class from the reference class etc. etc. 

If you try to generate code from a reference class by right clicking on it (either in the browser or on a diagram) and select the 'Java/J2EE' selection in the context menu you will see that the 'Generate Code' menu selection is not available for this class, i.e. it is grayed out. 

The 'Generate Code' menu selection is available when you can select the class and then do a Tools->Java/J2EE but even then code will not be generated for this class. In the case the 'WARNING: Component Component View::<<Component Name>> - Reference class cannot be forward engineered' warning will be generated in the Rose Log.

You can generate code for such classes by removing the reference class designation for the class. This can be done in one of two ways. You could wither open the specification dialog for the class and unchecking the 'Reference' check box or you could open the standard specification dialog for the class and set the ReadOnly property (found under the Java tab) to 'False'. 

When you base a model on a framework such as the J2SE1.2 framework, J2SE1.3 Framework, jdk-12 framework etc. etc. you will notice that all of the classes in these frameworks are designated to be reference classes.

 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 116164029