Title: IBM Server setup application cannot populate the Rational Team Concert database because the repotools.bat file is missing - United States

Text:
RN7.5.0.2; RN7.5.1; SRX; server setup application; repotools; deployment manager; database TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 If you install IBM Rational Asset Manager, Version 7.5.1 by using IBM Installation Manager on a deployment manager, and then run the Rational Asset Manager server setup application, an error occurs when the IBM Rational Team Concert database is populated. 

SYMPTOM
The following error is displayed: CRRAM703I: Database - CRRAM701E: Database – Error. This message indicates that Rational Team Concert is missing the repotools.bat file. The system might contain the repotools.sh file instead.


CAUSE
This error occurs if the deployment manager for IBM WebSphere Application Server is on a different operating system from the WebSphere Application Server instance host. 

Network deployment environments include a deployment manager server. The deployment manager manages multiple application servers and clusters. A cluster consists of multiple application servers. When Rational Asset Manager is deployed in a network deployment environment, it is usually deployed on a cluster.

Installing a deployment manager and a Rational Asset Manager cluster in a mixed operating system environment is not supported. However, if you are installing Rational Asset Manager on a network deployment of WebSphere Application Server that runs different operating systems, you can use the following guidelines.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Case 1: Run the environment on one operating system 


The preferred installation configuration is to run the deployment manager and the Rational Asset Manager cluster on the same operating system. Running the entire environment on the same operating system simplifies the installation process and the management of the application server.

In this case, you can install Rational Asset Manager by following the procedures in the product documentation.

Case 2: Run the deployment manager and cluster on different operating systems

If the deployment manager and Rational Asset Manager cluster are running on different operating systems, perform a manual installation. For example, if the deployment manager is running on AIX and the Rational Asset Manager cluster is running on a Windows system, follow these steps:


 1. Install the Rational Asset Manager server setup application on the cluster by using the WebSphere Application Server administration console or the wsadmin scripts. 
 2. Run the setup application by entering this URL in a web browser: http://appServer/ram.setup 
 3. In the server setup application, when you are prompted to specify the installation files, select the Windows version of the files to access the application server that runs on a Windows system. 
 4. Follow the instructions in the server setup application to finish the installation process.


Case 3: Run the deployment manager and a few application servers on the same operating system, and run other application servers on another operating system 

If the deployment manager and a few of the application servers in the Rational Asset Manager cluster are running on the same system and a few other application servers are running on a different operating system, issues might occur. A cluster of this type is not ideal, and this deployment of Rational Asset Manager has not been tested. 

For example, the deployment manager might run on AIX while the Rational Asset Manager cluster consists of application servers on AIX and a Windows system. In this case, these issues might occur: 
 * Running repotools issue - file not found: You can resolve this issue by running the correct version of the repotool files. If you deployed the Windows version of the files, run the repotools.bat file from an application server that is running the Windows system.

 * License client issue: The license client is a shared library in WebSphere Application Server that was created at the application server scope.
   If the license client that is running on an application server does not match the operating system, download the matching operating system .jar files to the server and point the variable of the license client shared library to the new .jar files. The variable is named rlsibmratl811_*.

 * Indexer issue: The indexer code is at com.ibm.ram.repository.web_runtime.ear\com.ibm.ram.repository.web.war\WEB-INF\classes\oiexport
   The code varies by operating system. You must change the oiexport classes with the matching operating system classes that can be found in the EAR file for that operating system.