Title: IBM ITM Service Console authentication fails - United States

Text:
service console; trace; dynamic; dynamically; service index; 1920; authentication; user and password; LDAP; vintela; OS account; userID; user ID; TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In the IBM Tivoli Monitoring Service Index, when clicking the "IBM Tivoli Monitoring Service Console" link for any ITM component, you are requested to authenticate.
Even providing the correct user/password combo, the authentication window is displayed again. 

SYMPTOM
Authentication seems to fail because the authentication window is displayed again beside you provided correct information


CAUSE
The highlighted behavior occurs when you are using non-local account to authenticate with the Service Console (in example : Vintela or any LDAP authentication method),

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Service Console does not leverage on the usual authentication model (eg. the one used to authenticate TEPS users or CLI).It needs local users and password to be present in the OS where the ITM component is running. 

The ITM/Service Console authenticates service requesters by requiring a LOCAL SYSTEM userid and password. LDAP is not used for ITM/Service Console login authentication.
The native platform security service is used. 
In z/OS RACF via SAF calls are used for authentication.
In windows, the Win32 LogonUser function is called for authentication. 
So, the ITM/Service console requires a local OS account for local access. 

This is required because the service console code has conditional compilation for the different OS types, using OS-specific functions.



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
You need to create local OS account and related password and use this one to authenticate with ITM Service console. 

Considering that Service Console is mostly used to dynamically chance ITM component trace level, please consider that from ITM 6.3 you can achieve the same result using new CLI command (settrace). 

If you are running ITM 6.3, you no longer need Service console to dynamically set trace level and so don't need to create a local user to bypass this limitation.

 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 IBM Tivoli Monitoring V6.x