Title: IBM Attribute groups supported by Lync monitoring agent for Skype for Business 2015 - United States

Text:
Lync Agent; 5724C04OC; 6.3.1.8 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Which attribute groups are supported by Lync Agent for Skype for Business 2015? 

ANSWER
List of all the attribute groups included in ITCAM for Microsoft, Lync Server Monitoring Agent v6.3.1.8 that are available for Skype for Business 2015 is as follows:
1. MCU Health And Performance
Collects data that tracks the state and performance of the IM MCU.
2. Join Launcher
Contains data from counters that apply to Join Launcher : categorizes various failures
3. Video Integration Server
Shows data related to the Video Integration Server.
4. USRV DBStore
Contains data from attributes that apply to the Database Access component of the Lync Server User Services module.
5. USRV REGDBStore
Contains data from attributes that are related to the database access component of the Lync Server Registrar Module.
6. User SHAREDDBStore
Shows data from counters that apply to the RTCSHARED database access component of Lync Server User Services Module.
7. SIP Authentication
Displays data from counters that apply to the authentication component of Lync Server. These counters are not active on an Access Edge Server.
8. SIP Load Management
Contains data from counters that apply to the load management component of Lync Server.
9. SIP Peers
Contains data from attributes that correspond to the statistics of each peer for the OCS/ Lync Server.
10. SIP Protocol
Contains data from attributes that correspond to the SIP protocol processing layer of the OCS/ Lync Server.
11. XmppFederation SIP Instant Messaging
Displays data from counters that apply to the XMPP Translating Gateway related to SIP Instant Messaging
12. RoutingApps Emergency Call Routing
Contains data from counters that apply to routing of Emergency Calls.
13. WEB UCWA
Displays data from counters that apply to UCWA.
14. WEB Auth Provider related calls
Contains data from counters that apply to pin and cert auth providers.
15. WEB Distribution List Expansion
Displays data from counters that apply to Lync/Skype for Business Server Address Book and Distribution List Expansion Web Service
16. Address Book File Download
Collects data from attributes that are related to the Address Book File Download module of Lync Web App.
17. Address Book Web Query
Collects data from attributes that are related to Address Book Web Query of Lync Web App.
18. Auth Provider related calls
Contains data from counters that apply to pin and cert auth providers.
19. Distribution List Expansion
Collects data from counters that apply to Lync/Skype for Business Server Address Book and Distribution List Expansion Web Service
20. Global Counters
Displays data from counters in Mediation Server that are related to all calls
21. Global Gateway Counters
Contains data from counters related to Mediation Server Gateway.
22. Health Indices
Contains data from counters related to Mediation Server Health Indices.
23. LS MediationServer Media Relay
Collects data from counters in Mediation Server that are related to Media Relay
24. AV Edge TCP Counters
Collects data from counters for the AV Edge Server TCP.
25. AV Edge UDP Counters
Displays data from counters for the AV Edge UDP.
26. Dataproxy Server Connections
Shows data from counters for the Dataproxy Server connections.
27. XmppFederationProxy Streams
Displays data from counters for the XmppFederationProxy streams.
28. SQL RTC Buffer Manager
Displays information of SQL server present on Front-end server.

Following new attribute groups are added in Lync Agent v6.3.1.8 which support Skype for Business 2015

1. Lync Topology
Displays the topology of all the servers/roles present on Lync server.
2. Synthetic Commands
Displays the performance monitoring data of the Synthetic Transactions.
3. Top 5 Active Users
Displays top 5 most active users based on the call duration.
4. FrontEnd Connectivity Details
Displays connectivity details of the front-end server.
5. Server Failure Count
Displays the total number of failed requests on each server for a particular time duration.
6. Usage Summary
Displays the total usage of the server services for a particular time period.
7. Failure Summary
Displays the failures that occurred on a server for a particular time period.
8. Call Quality Distribution
Displays the distribution of calls in various quality slabs.
9. QoEMetrics Call Summary
Displays the number of poor calls that are made by the users.
10. REPLICA Status
Displays data from counters that apply to status update of Replica Replicator Agent Service.