Title: IBM Netcool WEBGUI: HEMCDW0102: The session initiated by user has become invalid - United States

Text:
netcool webgui HEMCDW0102 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Why I am getting below error message from WEBGUI after I open AEL?

EMCDW0102: The session initiated by user xxx has become invalid 

ANSWER
There is a new security fix introduced in Web GUI 7.4 FP 5 and 8.1 FP3, with APAR IV70112, which can results in above message as explained below. 

See below APAR for details. 
http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg1IV79452 [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg1IV79452] 

See below URL for details on WebGUI 7.4 FP 5: 
http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg24037935 [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg24037935] 

When multiple users share the same browser session, it may happen that a user leaves floating applets open after logging off. This is a vulnerability, as the next user would be able to operate on tools, journals, preferences, etc. as the previous user. This is aggravated if the second user doesn't have the same roles as the previous user. 


In order to prevent this from happening, a focus or click event on any applet will verify it was initialized with the same Java session ID as the current one. If the two sessions are different, it assumes another user is logged on (or no user is logged on yet), and destroys all the applets. 


The recommendation would be to not have multiple users share the same browser session in the first place. It is an industry practice to close the browser after a closed session, when multiple users use the same machine. 


APAR IV70112 prevents lack of compliance with this practice to allow users to pose as other users while employing tools, or to otherwise share privileges between users, contextually to Web GUI's applets. 


This mechanism is unlikely to be amended for two reasons: 
1) it addresses a security issue 
2) it impacts on applets, which are undergoing obsoletion in favor of their non-applet replacements (meaning use of AEL - applets vs Event viewer -non-applet). 


Note: there is a slim chance that the mechanism in place with APAR IV70112 will prevent the same user from employing their applets in a previous session, if the Java session ID is not the same. This is unlikely to happen typically (and would only take place after a log off and new log on), and cannot likely be prevented, as the comparison is between JSessionID tokens, not user names.