Title: IBM CAIC in AMOS 6 for Multi-group CFA - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 AMOS prints the CAIC (Consistent Akaike Information Criterion) among the fit indices for single-group models when there is no missing data. Why is the CAIC unavailable in AMOS for Multiple Group Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA)? LISREL and EQS print the index in multiple group model output and it is regularly reported in published scholarly papers comparing configural multi-group CFA models to fully constrained multi-group CFA models. For example, please see: 

Steenkamp, J.E.M., & Baumgartner, H. (1998). Assessing measurement invariance in cross-national consumer research. Journal of Consumer Research, 25 (June), 78-90.
Steenkamp, J.E.M., Batra, R., & Alden. D. (2003). How perceived brand globalness creates brand value. Journal of International Business Studies, 34 (1), 53-65. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
As noted in Appendix C of the AMOS User's Guide, "CAIC is reported only for the case of a single group where means and intercepts are not explicit model parameters." The AMOS developer has indicated that the appropriate N to use in the formula for CAIC was not clear in these cases. The formulae and rationale used by EQS and LISREL are not available to us at this point.

Dr. Steenkamp has indicated that for the multiple group situation, the CAIC could be computed from the text output for the model as:
CAIC = chi-square + t* log(N)

where chi-square is the overall chi-square for the multiple group model, t is the number of freely estimated parameters (hence if two parameters are constraint to each other, this counts for 1)., and N might be the pooled sample size (sum of all the country samples).

The CAIC index was developed by Dr. H. Bozdogan and is described in:

Bozdogan, H. (1987). Model selection and Akaike's Information Criteria: The general theory and its analytical extensions. Psychometrika, 52, 345-370. 

In response to queries from SPSS Support, Dr. Bozdogan has stated:
"CAIC and my new Information Complexity Criterion (ICOMP) are all derivable in all the Statistical Models. That is why they are invented."

A feature request has been filed with SPSS Development to extend the CAIC availability to the multiple group and missing data situations and to add the new ICOMP fit index to the AMOS output. The ICOMP index is described in:
Bozdogan, H. (2000). Akaike's Information Criterion and Recent Developments in Information Complexity. Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 44 (1), 62-91.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our AMOS forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/search.html?f=&type=question&redirect=search%2Fsearch&sort=relevance&q=%2B[amos]]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 77099