Title: IBM Mobile portlets not displayed on page when portlet project deployed from Rational Application Developer - United States

Text:
Mobile Portlets are not displayed on the page; when a portlet project is deployed from the Rational SDP (RAD/RSA) workspace using ‘Run on Server’ Option. TECHNOTE (FAQ)

THIS DOCUMENT APPLIES ONLY TO THE FOLLOWING LANGUAGE VERSION(S):
 English 

QUESTION
 Mobile Portlets are not displayed on the page, when a portlet project is deployed from the Rational SDP (RAD/RSA) workspace using ‘Run on Server’ Option.


CAUSE
In general when a portlet is deployed from the RSA/RAD workspace, the portlet application gets deployed to the portal server and the portlet is added to a page under "Rational Portlets". The particular page inherits the Style Theme from the Node 'Context Root'. 
In the Portal 6.1.5, the default theme set to the content root is "Tab Menu - Page Builder" which is being inherited by "Rational Portlets". But for Mobile portlets to be rendered, the theme of the Rational Portlets page should be ‘Portal’ theme.


ANSWER
After deploying a mobile portlet project from Rational SDP Workspace, accessing the Mobile Portal Site using Firefox Useragent switcher or any simulator doesn’t render the mobile portlets deployed. 


Any one of the following two methods can be used to resolve this problem.

METHOD-1: After the WebSphere Portal 6.1.5 installation is performed for the pre-requisite softwares for MPTK.
1. Start the Portal Server
2. Login to the Portal Administration console using portal Admin access.
3. Go to administration menu; select the ‘Manage Pages’. 
4. Select the ‘Context Root’ node and Navigate to the node which represents the ‘Home’ page.
5. Click the Edit properties of the page and set the theme of the ‘Home’ Node to "Portal".

METHOD-2: After installing the MPTK on WebSphere Portal 6.1.5
1. Start the Portal Server
2. Login to the Portal Administration console using portal Admin access
3. Go to administration menu; select the ‘Mobile Manage Pages’. 
4. Select the ‘Context Root’ and Navigate to the node which represents the ‘Home’ page.
5. Click the Edit properties of the page and set the theme of the ‘Home’ Node to "Portal".

[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21424383&amp;aid=1]