Title: IBM "Sentinel LM: Error[19]: Failed to add license code to the license server on host "". License code is invalid" when licensing Clementine - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I am attempting to license my installation of Clementine on a Windows platform. When I enter the authorization code/license code, I receive the following errors

"Sentinel LM: Error[19]: Failed to add license code to the license server on host "". License code is invalid.

followed by...

Error Code: 30019

The License Code that you entered is not valid. Please enter a License Code from SPSS. Possibly you entered the Authorization Code that came with your product. If you did, click Back and use your Authorization Code to get a license from SPSS via the Internet, Telephone, or E-mail.

Lock Code:
Authorization Code:
License Code:

What is the problem? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
1. If you are trying to apply a single-user or site license/authorisation code over a terminal services or remote desktop connection using the license authorisation wizard you will receive this error. Because Clementine batch and server codes are always single-user codes, you will always see this error if you try to license these products using the license authorsiation wizard over a terminal services (TS) or remote desktop connection.

a. If you get this error while trying to license Clementine client over a TS or remote desktop connection then you have performed the wrong type of installation of Clementine client. You must perform a network installation of Clementine client if you are installing on a server-class Windows platform. You do not get any errors if you try to apply a network authorisation or license code to the Sentinel License Manager using the license authorisation wizard over a remote desktop or terminal services session, so you should not see this error licensing a correctly-installed Clementine client.

b. If you get this error while trying to license Clementine server or batch over a TS or remote desktop connection then there are three workarounds to the issue.

i. license the product with the spssactivator.exe executable file that is installed in the product bin directory.

ii. rather than using a remote login to apply the license physically log on to the server machine to apply the license. 

iii. use a remote login application that gives you a console logon from a remote location (such as DameWare), rather than a Terminal Services or Remote Desktop connection, to access the machine. Connecting using DameWare will allow you to apply a license to Clementine Server or Batch using the license authorisation wizard without any errors.

iv. If neither of the above are possible, please contact SPSS to obtain a license code rather than an authorisation code. You will need to give SPSS the authorisation code that you have been sent, as well as the lock code of the server on which you have installed Clementine batch or server. To obtain the lock code, start a command prompt on the machine that you have installed Clementine server and/or batch, cd to the bin subdirectory of your Clementine batch or server installation and run:

echoid.exe

this will return the lock code for that machine. If you supply the lock code and the authorisation code to SPSS they will be able to give you a license code. 

When you get the license code you need to copy the entire string into the file "lservrc" that you will find in the bin directory of your Clementine Server or batch installation. Open the lservrc file in a text editor, copy the license string into the file, and then save the file.

Once you have done this the license will have been applied to your Clementine Server or batch installation.

2. The Lock Code encrypted into the entered license does not match that of the hardware you are attempting to license. If you are unable to determine which machine for which this license was generated, please contact SPSS Customer Service for assistance at (800) 521-1337 or your local SPSS office if outside of North America.

3. If you are getting this error while trying to apply a license to the Sentinel license manager, ensure the SPSS Sentinel License Manager service is started. Go to Start->Control Panel->Administrative Tools->Services and locate "Sentinel LM". The status should report the service is started. If it is not started, i.e. blank, right-click/double-click on the "Sentinel LM" service name and select "Start". If the service will not start, one possible cause could be the Sentinel License Manager was previously installed elsewhere, but has since been removed and installed into a different directory. If that is the case, go to Start->Programs->SPSS Sentinel License Manager->Service Loader. Next, ensure the "Executable Path" is correct and click "Add". Finally, start the "Sentinel LM" service following the aforementioned steps.

4. You have an lshost or lsforcehost environment variable defined on the machine where the SPSS Sentinel License Manager is installed. Please remove the environment variable and run the License Authorization Wizard again on this machine to request a license

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]
Need more help? Our Licensing forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/spsslicensing.html]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 61650