Title: IBM Retrieving bucket information - United States

Text:
STRSBKT MPI_STRSBKT MPI_STRNBKT STRNBKT setSegCodeFilter GetType TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I have noticed that analytic queries in the workbench and mpimshow utility are both able to display the backet hash, bucket roles, and bucket values associated with a member record but I have been unable to get these values with java code of via SQLs.


Is it possible to retrieve the bucket role and bucket value using java code(part of operations like memget, memsearch etc) or via SQLs? 

CAUSE
The application is designed to store buckets in the database using a 64 bit hash value in the MPI_MEMBKTD table. These bucket hashes are generated based on a hashing algorithm which uses the bucket data to derive these hash values. The buckets themselves are shared across multiple members with each member in turn containing multiple buckets as per the corresponding member data.

The application only stores the bucket hashes in the database and not the bucket values or roles associated with those buckets. This is done to improve performance because comparing and matching integer values(hashes) is much faster than comparing string(bucket values).

ANSWER
Since bucket value and role are not stored in the database, therefore they can not be retrieved using Java code or SQLs. 


The output for mpimshow and some analytic queries in the workbench do contain bucket values and bucket roles but they are not pulled from the database. Rather, we get them by re-deriving the member data on the fly. The application looks up member data, standardizes it, generates bucket information (including bucket value and bucket role), and finally a bucket hash. All this is done in real time and displayed as part of the output. 

SQLs and standard code like memget or memsearch do not re-derive member data and hence we can not get certain bucketing information from them.



PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 MDM
MDS
Master Data Service
Master Data Management
Initiate