Title: IBM 'DPR-ERR-2101 Your request was invalid' error when changing standard html report to render in pdf or excel - United States

Text:
dpr-err-2101 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 User runs a standard report (for example a financial report). This displays OK (by default using HTML). User then clicks the button to change the report output to PDF (or XLS). An error appears. This affect reports that have package routing rule applied as reports that do not have package routing rule works fine. 

SYMPTOM
In the IBM Cognos portal:
An error has occurred.
DPR-ERR-2101 Your request was invalid. Please contact your administrator.
Please try again or contact your administrator.


CAUSE
"DPR-ERR-2101" errors can be generic that imply that the report request could not be dispatch to a report server to handle- in other words, there can be many different potential causes to this issue. In this case the likely cause was certain dispatchers crypto keys may not be in sync with the others causing inter-dispatcher request failures in report serving.

ENVIRONMENT
Multi-server IBM cognos 10.2.1 fp2 installed on windows 2008 servers.
2CM, 8 Dispatcher/Report server and 2 Gateway
All reports have package routing rules/Dispatcher Server Groups defined.

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
(1) This issue occur only after 3 of the report server dispatcher was recrypted to resolve issue relating to cypto keys when these dispatchers failed with cypto error message. Additionally there was rework on the package routing rules for various package affected when the 3 dispatcher went down.
(2) Affect most of the interactive reports which runs fine in html but fail when rerun in pdf or excel.
(3) All reports run in batch for pdf or excel works fine.
(4) All interactive reports that does not run in package routing mode will run fine in html, pdf or excel.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
(a) Revert the packages routing rules back to its original form when everything works.
(b) Regenerate the cypto keys for ALL servers involved in the install to ensure the cypto keys are in sync with each other.