Title: IBM Open Mic Replay: Troubleshooting SCA Problems in WebSphere Process Server - United States

Text:
wste_webcast; WSTE; Support Technical Exchange; education; presentation; webcast; STEwebcastDocument; troubleshoot; SCA; websphere process server; timeout; deadlock; stuck messages; transaction; recovery; error handling WEBCAST

ABSTRACT
 Have you ever faced a problem with stuck messages in SCA queues or transaction timeouts and wanted some guidelines on how to troubleshoot these problems? If so bring in your questions to this Open Mic on SCA troubleshooting, sync-over-async anti patterns, transaction settings and many more. 

CONTENT
Open Mic sessions are conducted in a question and answer format. The table below provides a time index (minutes:seconds) to the recording and describes the questions or topics discussed. You can fast forward to any question using the time index, a table containing the panel of experts is also included.


To play or download the audio of this Open Mic session, see the Audio Section of this document.

See the Related Information Section of this document for a list of documents referenced during the presentation.








Open Mic session 
4 January 2011 - 11:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. EST 

Time Questions asked 00:00 Silence 00:00 General introduction 03:59 Technical introduction 04:41 I have been told sync-over-async is an anti-pattern, how do I ensure I am not using it? 07:32 We see a transaction that we know will not finish and as a result keep seeing transaction XA errors in the logs. We don't see any messages in our SIB queues and there are no failed events. We have been told not to delete the tranlogs. If that is the case, what is the best way to delete this transaction? 10:29 What settings can I follow to ensure I don't end up with huge depth of messages in my SIB callback destinations? 12:48 What are the key parameters that need to be tuned for better performance with asynchronous SCA invocation in WebSphere Process Server? 13:42 Is there a big difference in terms of performance overhead in an asynchronous inter-module interaction vs asynchronous intra-module interaction. Should the former be avoided? 14:58 I want to understand which queues are created in the context of SCA modules, and what is their purpose? 17:55 How do I interpret messages that are parked in queue and what do I do with them? 21:35 What level of control do I have over MQMD header fields in an outgoing message from an MQ import. What fields can I set and how can I set them? 25:26 We have a long running process (Module A) making synchronous calls to a SCA Import (Module B). We are aware of the fact that it is not a good practice to make synchronous calls from LR BPEL. However we would like to know the expected behavior for the invocation activity in case the related transaction timeout expires. We observe that if Module B provides a response after the “transaction timeout” of the invoke activity, then the BPEL successfully navigates to the next activity. This will happen after a small delay. No exceptions are raised for the BPEL to catch and there are no double messages towards Module B. Is this the expected behavior? 28:24 We have a long running process (Module A) making asynchronous calls to a SCA Import (Module B). If Module B provides the response after the “transaction timeout” of the invoke activity, we observe that Module B is unable to sent back the response to Module A. It seems to us that the SCA is having problems getting a connection to SIBus as a consequence of the transaction having timed out and the SCA code is retrying the connections for a long time before eventually throwing a CWSCA2001E error (SCA unable to establish connection to SIB/ME in xxx secs). The call/initial request afterwards is re-tried resulting in duplicate messages towards Module B. Is this the expected behavior? If so, what would you recommend us to do to overcome this issue? 31:32 I have set a "Request expiration" qualifier. After the expiration time, does the request get moved to the Failed Event Manager or any other exception queues? 34:22 We see a huge depth in one of the SIB queues and suspect it might be causing performance problems. What is the fastest way to deal with such an issue? 36:40 When I click on Application and then the SCA modules from the admin console, it takes an enormous amount of time for the list to display, and after displaying all the SCA applications, clicking on Mediation applications also take a long time to display its properties. Do you have any advice on this? 38:30 I have a WebServices import, which fails after several retries, where does the message go to? 42:36 Do you have any tips on how to tune my BPC explorer applications to avoid out-of-memory problems? 43:20 I am trying to achieve multithreading in a SCA module, and I set MaxConcurrency and MaxBatchSize to 1, and I am having a problem because I am seeing concurrent processing with dfferent messages - am I doing something wrong? 46:37 Closing remarks 47:06 End of Call 
Panel of Experts: Pamela Fong Senior Software Engineer - WebSphere Process Server Development Jeff Brent Senior Engineer - WebSphere Process Server SWAT Alex Wood Software Engineer - WPS/WESB Development Lalitha Chandran Software Engineer - WebSphere Process Server Technical Support team 

PRESENTATION
[http://www.ibm.com/i/v16/icons/weblecture.gif]WSTE-01042011-OpenMic-TroubleshootingSCAProblemsinWebSphereProcessServer-Chandran.pdf [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27020512&aid=2] WSTE-01042011-OpenMic-TroubleshootingSCAProblemsinWebSphereProcessServer-Chandran.pdf [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27020512&aid=1]

Get Adobe Reader [http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep2.html] to view PDF

AUDIO
[http://www.ibm.com/i/v16/icons/aud.gif]To replay the recording of this 47 minutes conference call, click on Download Audio [ftp://public.dhe.ibm.com/software/websphere/techexchange/Jan-04-2011-Chandran.mp3] (5.0MB - audio in MP3 format). Right-click and select Save As to store the file on your local computer for later playback. Remember that you can fast forward to any question using the time index.

RELATED INFORMATION
 WebSphere Support Technical Exchange [http://www.ibm.com/software/websphere/webcast]