Title: IBM WebSphere DataPower M/T 9235 appliance might incorrectly report failure of both power supplies - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 The IBM WebSphere DataPower M/T 9235 appliance might incorrectly report the failure of both power supplies. This message is not reported on all appliances and can occur rarely in the field. 

ANSWER
The following message would be present in the DataPower logs: 

System power supply #2 has failed.

or logging event code: 

0x80400022 System power supply #2 


The problem can be confirmed by issuing the following commands on the appliance CLI:

co 
test hardware 
exit 

The following output from the test hardware command confirms this problem: 

[failure] Power supply '1' has no AC input power, or is not present.
[failure] Power supply '2' has no AC input power, or is not present.

Other results in the test hardware command might also show incorrect values.

This problem does not affect the operation of the appliance other than the continuous reporting power supply failure message. 

To confirm the power supplies are working normally you may check the LED status on the power supplies. If the LED's are green the power supplies are working normally.


To recover from the false errors perform a reboot of the appliance: 

From the WebGUI: 

Control Panel → System Control → In the “Shutdown” section choose “Reboot System” then click “Shutdown” 

 

From the CLI: 

top 

shutdown reboot 

y 


This problem is caused by a highly intermittent error that may allow the sensor reading mechanism to get into a bad state. This bad state then generates the false error messages. In most cases, a reboot of the appliance will reset the sensors and no additional errors are logged. The highly intermittent error rarely occurs again on the same appliance 

If the issue reoccurs on the same appliance contact IBM DataPower support [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21236322] with the following information: 

1) How many times have you seen the issue on the same appliance? 

2) Gather the outputs for the following CLI commands:
show clock
show version
show ipmi
show sensors-other
config
service show
test hardware