Title: IBM What is occurring when Transformer is not responding? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Is it possible to monitor Transformer? What happens when it is not responding? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
When an application is not responding it doesn't mean its not doing 

anything. Actually its quite the opposite. It really means the application is 
to busy doing something to respond to other requests from Windows. 
There are a number of ways to monitor Transformer. First, Transformer 
generates a log file while it is running. The log file name default is 
TFMR*.LOG; otherwise, it will be whatever you have specified in 
File/Preferences, Logging, Logging File Name. By default the log is put in the 
same directory as the model unless you have changed the log directory in your 
preferences. Transformer will write a log entry for each step is goes through 
during the cube build process. If you want to view the log while transformer 
is running, make sure you use an editor that does not put a lock on the file 
when you open it, for example, notepad. During long queries, Transformer 
may not log anything while it is waiting for the query to run. You can adjust 
the logging options in the Logging tab of the preferences. You can also 
watch your processor usage in task manager. During a long query the CPU usage 
will probably not be at a consistently high level but you should see the usage 
being activated as rows are retrieved. After Transformer receives all the rows 
and starts its processing you will see the CPU usage increase. You should 
also see a steady on and off of disk activity during the cube build 
process. Also, you can use the NT Performance Monitor to monitor the CPU 
usage of the trnsfrmr.exe process. If it is using CPU time and/or hitting the 
disk then its doing something.






Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Transformer Business Analytics Cognos Series 7 Transformer 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 80769