Title: IBM Cognos Open Mic Webcast :  Best Practices in IBM Cognos BI Upgrade Process - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 IBM hosted an Open Mic webcast with Cognos Support Engineers from India on 28 November 2012. The topic was "Best Practices in IBM Cognos BI Upgrade Process ". 

ANSWER
Content 

Presentation 

Best Practice in IBM Cognos BI Upgrade Process.pdf [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21621242&aid=2]Best Practice in IBM Cognos BI Upgrade Process.pdf [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21621242&aid=1] Q & A 
Q1. Does Lifecycle Manager validates the report from Cognos 8 server or will it validate reports from Cognos 10 server or on both version? 
A. Lifecycle Manager connects to the source (Cognos 8 server) and target (Cognos 10) environments, validates and executes reports in both environments, and then compares them. 

Q2. What are the kind of report formats that are supported in life cycle manager comparison? 
A. Lifecycle Manager can now compare reports in HTML, XML, CSV, PDF and the following Microsoft Excel spreadsheet software formats: Excel 2007, Excel 2002, and Excel 2000 Single Sheet format. 

Q3. What are the kind of reports that are not supported in life cycle manager comparison? 
A. Lifecycle Manager does not test reports with embedded JavaScript item, does not test interactive functionality such as drill up, drill down, drill through, HTML links to external content, and bookmarks. 

Q4. Will existing Cognos 8.3 Javascript support on Cognos 10 ? 
A. That depends if it is generic and works outside of IBM Cognos. Javascript used in HTML Items in Reports never received any support from IBM Cognos Development. Currently only the C10.2 product has a supported Javascript Prompt API which needs to be used instead of any other designs. All other javascript used with Reports below C10.2 are the responsibility of the Customer. There will be a requirement by the customer to modify any Javascript during upgrades , and ensure that it works properly before implementing such Reports during the upgrade process. 

Q5. How can we track SDK changes during upgrade ? 
A. Life Cycle Manager does not support SDK upgrade. 
If IBM Cognos SDK applications are being used, all the IBM Cognos SDK applications will need to be upgraded to make use of the IBM Cognos BI 10.1 libraries (JAR files and .NET assemblies) before connecting and running the IBM Cognos 10.1 reports. It may also need additional code changes to existing applications as a result of deprecated functions and/or differences in product behavior. Consult the IBM Cognos 10 SDK Developer’s Guide for detailed information on upgrading SDK applications to the IBM Cognos 10.1 level. 

Q6. Is there any special process in taking the backup of Cognos 8.4 content store? 
A. There are two methods: 
1) Take the deployment export through Cognos Administration 
2) Take the complete Database backup through DB tools. 

Q7. Is there a setting to enable Multi-version coexistence so that it becomes visible on Cognos Connection Portal? 
A. Multi-version Coexistence(MVC) is configured by setting up some Advanced Parameters. 

Q8. Is it recommended to make a copy of the Content Store database and then point the new environment to it or is it recommended to create a blank database for the content store and then export and import? 
A. The recommendation is to make a copy of the Cognos 8.x content store database and point Cognos 10.1 to this copy and have it upgraded on startup.