Title: IBM RSV-SRV-0056 The Report Server process did not initialize properly. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Reports appear to take a long time to run and then eventually result in the RSV-SRV-0056 error message. The environment does not appear to properly start-up and will often slow or stop after attempting to start the logging service.

Interactive reports run fine, batch reports end with the error RSV-SRV-0056. The environment does not appear to properly start-up but cogservice starts fine.

Sometimes there are also issues starting IBM Cognos 8 service from within Cognos Configuration. 

SYMPTOM
RSV-SRV-0056 The Report Server process did not initialize properly.
RSV-SRV-0042 Trace back: 

RSReportService.cpp(792)
RSReportService.cpp(454) 


CAUSE
Two known causes:
1.) Invalid statement/arguement/line within the ipfclientconfig.xml file causing the services to never fully or properly load. 
2.) Batchreportservice uses the nc_tables which cannot be accessed because of bad performance of the database, in this case a DB2 


DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Two known diagnosing hints: 

1.) Review the /cognos/c8/configuration directory for the existence of the ipfclientconfig.xml file and it's date time stamp to see if it is recent.
Attempt to load the ipfclientconfig.xml in a web browser, such as Internet Explorer, to see if it loads correctly. If there are any errors with the syntax/structure of the file it will not load.
2.) Review the DB2 log for errors, verify the value for setting APPLHEAPSIZE


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Two options to resolve this issue: 

1.) 

 * Remove / rename the ipclientconfig.xml. 
 * Update the ipfclientconig.xml so it contains proper syntax if you require the file for tracing. 
 * Restart service after completing the above.

2.) Increase the parameter APPLHEAPSIZE to at least 4096 or even higher if needed.  


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos Business Intelligence Cognos Viewer AIX, HP-UX, HP Itanium, Linux, Solaris, Windows 8.4, 8.4.1