Title: IBM Grad Pack / Student Version support - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I would like to receive an operational support for my Grad Pack / Student Version of SPSS, is this possible? 

ANSWER
If you are having trouble with the installation of SPSS or problems getting the program to run, we would be glad to assist you. Registration [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21592093] for this support is required. The pricing of the SPSS Grad Pack/Student Version, however, doesn't include technical support for operational or statistical questions.

You'll want to make sure that you have all of the necessary SPSS documentation associated with your version of SPSS. For the SPSS Grad Pack, this will mean purchasing the SPSS Base System User's Guide and as well as the manuals for each of the additional modules that came with your software. Bound copies of these materials can be purchased at your bookstore (where you purchased the software) or directly from the SPSS Sales Department. In addition, CD-ROM versions of SPSS for Windows have the full Base Syntax Reference Guide as well as the command reference portions of the guides from their respective modules included in .pdf format on the installation media (these versions of SPSS install the Acrobat software which can read these files, if you don't already have it installed).

Operational and statistical questions should be addressed to your academic advisors or course instructors using SPSS. If you have a statistical consultant affiliated with the computing services at your college or university, there is a good chance that he or she can offer advice in SPSS operations.

There is also an SPSS USENET discussion group (not sponsored by SPSS) that is open to anyone interested in SPSS products where you might be able to get some assistance. This USENET address is comp.soft-sys.stat.spss. It deals with computer, statistical and other operational issues related to SPSS software.

Additionally, you can subscribe to an e-mail list that is gatewayed to the USENET group by sending an e-mail message to listserv@listserv.uga.edu, and typing subscribe SPSSX-L firstname lastname as the text of the message. You can then post messages to this list by sending an e-mail message to listserv@listserv.uga.edu.

Note that this policy also applies to versions of Amos that come with the SPSS Grad Pack and to the Clementine Grad Packs

 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 39910