Title: IBM Cannot view IWR reports exported to CSV format in MS Excel - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Error

'<server drive>\WinNT40\Profiles\<NTusername>\Temporary.xls'
could not be found. Check the spelling of the file name,
verify that the file location is correct.
If you are trying to open the file from your list of most recently
used files on the File menu, make sure that the file has not been
renamed, moved, or deleted.
(click OK)
'Internet.xls' could not be found.
Check the spelling of the file name,
verify that the file location is correct.
If you are trying to open the file from your list of most recently
used files on the File menu, make sure that the file has not been
renamed, moved, or deleted.
(click OK)
'Files\Y!CHUT8B\imrap.xls' could not be found.
Check the spelling of the file name,
verify that the file location is correct.
If you are trying to open the file from your list of most recently
used files on the File menu, make sure that the file 
has not been
renamed, moved, or deleted.

These 3 errors occurs when you are attempting to view reports, exported in CSV format, in Excel. Internet Explorer browser will not view the CSV file in the Excel. Excel produces these 3 warning messages and will launch with a blank spreadsheet. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
This occurs because the MIME [Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions] types are not set for the CSV file type on the workstation and web server level.

To set the CSV MIME on the workstation level, peform the following Steps:1. Open My Computer
2. View menu |Options, go the File Types tab
3. Search for Comma Separated value or Microsoft Excel Comma Separated
Value. If none of these found, Add one with the following values:
Mime Type: application/csv
Default extension: .csv
Check Confirm open after download
Action: Open (with characteristics):
Application used: "...\Microsoft Office\Office\excel.exe" /E
Check DDE
DDE Message: [open("%1"]
Application: Excel
Topic: system
(save with these characteristics).


To set the CSV MIME on the workstation level:

For IIS web server:

1. Start button, Programs, Windows NT 4.0 Option Pack,
Microsoft Web Server, Internet Service Manager
2. In the Microsoft Management Console, expand Console Root,
Internet information Server, <server>, select Default Web site,
right-click, select Properties
3. Under the HTTP Headers tab, in the MIME Map section,
click the File types button, register a New Type:
Associated Extension: .csv
Content Type (MIME): application/csv

For Netscape Enterprise Server:

1. Start button, Programs, Netscape SuiteSpot, Administration.
2. Under Netscape Enterprise Server, click the server button
3. Under the Server Preferences tab, select the MIME Types link
3. Configure New Type:
Category: Type
Content-type: application/csv
Suffix: csv
Save changes.



Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Cognos Connection Business Analytics Cognos Series 7 Impromptu Web Reports 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 79418