Title: IBM "Error attempting to acquire licenses  ... " at performance test run with 6 or more users - United States

Text:
Rational Performance Tester; RPT; Floating User; license; License Server; License Key Server; Virtual User; Virtual TestPack; obtain; error; acquire; test run; performance test; more than; 5 virtual users; problem determination log; License Key Administrator; version; VU; five; 5 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Attempts to run an IBM Rational Performance Tester (RPT) test with more than five virtual users result in error "... See problem determination log for more information" 

SYMPTOM
You can check out a Rational Performance Tester FLEXlm Floating User license key from the license server and run Rational Performance Tester. However, you cannot run tests with more than five virtual users (VU). You get the following error. 


Performance Test 
Error attempting to acquire licenses for test run. See problem determination log for more information. 

 

 

You upgraded Rational Performance Tester to v8.1 or newer and the IBM Rational License (Key) Server to v7.1 or v8.1.x. The license server holds both a Performance Tester Floating User license key as well as a Virtual User TestPack license key.



CAUSE
You have two License Key Administrators present on one and the same computer. The configurations of these two License Key Administrators are faulty.



DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
 

 

 1. Verify if the FLEXlm Common Licensing Client components are present on the client computer.
    
    When you install RPT v8.1, the installation procedure installs the Common Licensing components by default. For RPT 8.x version, you need v7.0.0.6 (or higher) of the Common Licensing Components (CLC) if VU keys are to be used.
    
    To verify what versions are installed you need to open Rational Software Installed Product Information on the client machine Click Start > (All) Programs > IBM Rational > Rational Software Installed Product Information). The IBM Rational Installed Product Information Screen appears in about 10 seconds.
    
    Note: IBM Rational software that was installed with the IBM Installation Manager will not be displayed in Rational Software Installed Product Information. You can view the installed product version(s) by opening IBM Installation Manager > View Installed Packages.
    
    Verify if the screen displays the IBM Rational Common Licensing - Client components. If the Common Licensing - Client Components are missing, install the Common Licensing - Client components. . Uninstall RPT and select the Common Licensing Components option again when you reinstall RPT. 
    
    Alternatively, you may contact Rational Customer Support and request the CLC installation image so that you can install CLC again without reinstalling RPT.
    
    
 2. Verify the License Key Administrator configuration on the client computer.
    
    This is important in cases where license server and client are one and the same computer. 
    
    

 * When installing the Rational License Server (RLS) v7.1.x:





- the FLEXlm licensing components will be installed by default in: 

C:\Program Files\IBM\RationalSDLC\common\. 

When installing the IBM Rational License Key Server (RLKS) v8.1.x :

- the FLEXlm/Flexnet licensing components will be installed by default in: 

C:\Program Files\IBM\RationalRLKS\common\

The Common Licensing Client components (the Flexlm components that come with RPT), however are still installed (by default) in C:\Program Files\Rational\Common. When server and client are one and the same computer, you get two License Key Administrators installed on the same computer.




 * licadmin.exe in C:\Program Files\Rational\Common
   
   
   
 * FOR RLS v7.1.x: licadmin2.exe in 
   
   C:\Program Files\IBM\RationalSDLC\common\
   
   or
   
   FOR RLKS v8.1.x: licadmin8.exe in 
   
   C:\Program Files\IBM\RationalRLKS\common\

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
To resolve the problem:, consider the following steps. 

 

 1. Run licadmin.exe and open the Client/Server configuration. 
    
    
 2. Enter the relevant server details. Then close the License Key Administrator.
    



For RLS v7.1.x: 

 1. Run licadmin2.exe if you have RLS v7.1.x installed and open the Client/Server configuration.
    
    
 2. Enter the relevant server details. Then close the License Key Administrator
    
    


For RLKS V8.1.x 

 1. Run licadmin8.exe. 
    
    
 2. Open the Client/Server configuration. 
    
    
 3. Enter the relevant server details. Then close the License Key Administrator.





Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational License Key Server Product Specific