Title: IBM What components does the IBM Case Foundation V5.2 software install and what are its licensing and software requirements? - United States

Text:
requirements; required TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What components does the IBM Case Foundation V5.2 software install and what are its licensing and software requirements? 

ANSWER
 

IBM Case Foundation components: 

IBM Case Foundation V5.2 software installs the following software components: 

 * Tools (Case Foundation tools) 
 * Case Monitor Project (a sample project for integrating Case Analyzer with Cognos software) 
 * Cognos Business Intelligence project (a sample project for integrating Case Analyzer with Cognos software) 
 * Excel Reports (sample Case Analyzer client reports) 
 * SSAS Connector (required to enable Case Analyzer integration with Microsoft速 SQL Server Analysis Services)


Sample screenshot from the IBM Case Foundation installer:  * [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21673504&amp;aid=1]


. IBM Case Foundation Tools components (with Microsoft速 Windows samples): 

The Tools option installs utilities for Case Analyzer, such as: 

 * The cacompression.bat script to compress the Case Analyzer database to maintain its size. 
 * The captm.bat script to manager the Case Analyzer configuration. 
 * The caupgrade.bat script to upgrade to the Case Analyzer service in the Content Platform Engine 5.2 server from earlier Case Analyzer versions.


Sample screenshot of the installed components (contents of the red box) on Microsoft速 Windows: 
[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21673504&aid=2] [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21673504&aid=2] . 

Additional notes: 

The IBM Case Foundation V5.2 software license is required if you want to use the full workflow capability feature. The full workflow capability feature includes designing and launched new Process service workflows. 

Without the IBM Case Foundation V5.2 software license, you can only launch and process existing workflows on the Content Platform Engine. These existing workflows are inherited in an upgrade or a migration from another system with licensing for the full workflow capability feature. 

Installing the IBM Case Foundation V5.2 software component is not required for launching or processing existing or new workflows on the Content Platform Engine. 

Installing the IBM Case Foundation V5.2 software component is required to manage the Case Analyzer configuration if you use the Case Analyzer service in the Content Platform Engine. 

Installing the IBM Case Foundation V5.2 software component is required if you want to integrate the Case Analyzer component with Microsoft速 SQL Server Analysis Services. 

The IBM Case Foundation V5.2 software component is required for integration with Cognos software. The Case Monitor Project and Cognos Business Intelligence Project components provide default dashboards and reports for Cognos RTM and Cognos BI, respectively, which may be used as starting points for more custom requirements. Familiarity with the Cognos RTM and Cognos BI will be required to extend this functionality.