Title: IBM Intermittent session time out within FileNet Content Manager WorkplaceXT - United States

Text:
Session timeout; Workplace XT; time out; The session state is invalid due to a session timeout or server failure TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Log on to WorkplaceXT and then browse to a document and intermittently a session time out error occurs: The session state is invalid due to a session timeout or server failure. 

SYMPTOM
This error occurs intermittently while using WorkplaceXT: 

The session state is invalid due to a session timeout or server failure


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
WorkplaceXT does not have a session time out value. It rather relies on the Application Server. With WebSphere 6.1 this requires setting a time out value in 2 locations. Both changes are mandatory. 

Please perform the following steps to adjust the session time out value: 

Instructions for WebSphere 6.x

On Websphere instance where has WorkplaceXT deployed:



 1. Login to the WebSphere Admin console
    
    
 2. Go to Enterprise Applications
    
    
 3. WorkplaceXT
    
    
 4. Manage Modules
    
    
 5. web_client.war
    
    
 6. Session management
    
    
 7. Check Override session management
    
    
 8. Select Set timeout and enter a value in minutes. For example 8 hours would be 480 minutes
    
    
 9. Click the Apply button
    
    


On Websphere instance where has FileNet Content Engine deployed: 

 1. Login to the WebSphere Admin console
    
    
 2. Go to Secure administration, applications, and infrastructure Authentication mechanisms and expiration
    
    
 3. Set the Timeout value for forwarded credentials between server to a value greater than what was set in set timeout. For example 540 minutes
    
    
 4. You'll need to generate new LTPA keys and import them for the new settings to take affect if WPXT and CE are on different WAS server
    


After complete above steps, restart both WPXT and CE Application Servers


 

Instructions for WebSphere 7.x


On Websphere instance where has WorkplaceXT deployed:



 1. Login to the WebSphere Administrator console
    
    
 2. Go to Applications
    
    
 3. Application Types
    
    
 4. WebSphere enterprise applications
    
    
 5. WorkplaceXT
    
    
 6. Under Web Module Properties click Session Management
    
    
 7. Check Override session management
    
    
 8. Under Session timeout Select Set timeout and enter a value in minutes. For example 8 hours would be 480 minutes
    
    
 9. Click the Apply button
    
    

On the Websphere instance where FileNet Content Engine is deployed: 

 1. Login to the WebSphere Administrator console
    
    
 2. Go to Security
    
    
 3. Global Security
    
    
 4. Under Authentication>Authentication mechanisms and expiration Click LTPA
    
    
 5. Under LTPA timeout set the LTPA timeout value for forwarded credentials between servers to a value greater than what was set in set timeout. For example 540 minutes
    
    
 6. You'll need to generate new LTPA keys and import them for the new settings to take affect if WPXT and CE are on different WAS server
    



After complete above steps, restart both WPXT and CE Application Servers 



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Enterprise Content Management FileNet P8 Platform