Title: IBM Complex Searching in Infosets - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How do I use wildcards and word proximity when searching within infosets? 

ANSWER
Wildcards and Proximity searches are the most common complex and expensive types. Here's a quick rundown of each:
WILDCARD SYNTAX

*(Asterisk) 
A single asterisk finds multiple characters or letters at beginning of a term. A filter for *olol returns results for betaxolol, carteolol, levobetaxolol, levobunolol, metipranolol, and timolol.

An asterisk matches any number of characters in the middle of a term. te*t returns results for text, test, tent, and tempest.

An asterisk that is placed after a partial word finds terms that begin with those letters at the end of a term. 

A filter for ap* returns results for Apple, April, applied, and application.

An asterisk alone finds all objects.

?(Question Mark) 
The question mark matches a single character. For example, compl? returns results for comply but not complies. To filter for more than one character, use a question mark for each letter, for example, ap??e.


Proximity syntax

w/x 
Filtering uses the w/x syntax (x represents the number of terms between the two terms) to use the relationship between search terms. w/0 matches terms that are next to each other in any order, and w/1 matches terms with one word between them. The terms can appear in any order.
Grouping with proximity allows for even more targeted results. For example, ("stock" OR "option") w/3 (2007) finds either stock or option within three terms of 2007.
Terms can have wildcards or phrases.

pre/x 
The pre/x syntax (x represents the number of words between the two terms) enables users to target proximity filters by dictating which term comes before another term. For example, chairman pre/15 options returns data objects where chairman comes up to 15 terms before options.
pre/0 matches terms that are next to each other and in the same order; pre/1 matches terms with at most one word between them and in the same order.
Terms can have wildcards or phrases. 

 

Within an Infoset, a filter can be created which will perform complex full text searches. Under Create>Build Filter select the full-text checkbox and a new text box will appear. Within this box is where you enter your terms according to the syntax above. Terms can also include stem terms. i.e. searching for wait will also include the term waiting. Activating this feature, along with optimizing the above searches is done from the Data Server under Configuration>Full-text settings. 

 

On the right side of this page, select the radio button next to "Stem words that are indexed (improved searching)" and just below there, select the radio button next to "Optimize searches by suffix (faster searching)". Both of these options will greatly improve your searches and searching capabilities. However, they will also degrade the speed of harvests.