Title: IBM Open Mic Presentation on "Best Practices for IBM Notes Traveler Deployment" on 27th Aug, 2015 - United States

Text:
Traveler deployment ; openmic TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM
Presentation and Q&A session for Open Mic Presentation on "Best Practices for IBM Notes Traveler Deployment" on 27th Aug, 2015

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Open Mic Presentation on "Best Practices for IBM Notes Traveler Deployment" where in presenter will give 55 minutes presentation followed by Q&A session. 

Download Presentation (pdf file) and Audio Recording (mp4 file) 

Best practices of Notes Traveler deployment.pdf [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21965797&aid=2]Best practices of Notes Traveler deployment.pdf [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21965797&aid=1] 

Best practices for Notes Traveler Deployment 1.rar [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21965797&aid=4]Best practices for Notes Traveler Deployment 1.rar [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21965797&aid=3] Best practices for Notes Traveler Deployment 2.rar [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21965797&aid=6]Best practices for Notes Traveler Deployment 2.rar [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21965797&aid=5] 

 


Q1. Is it recommended to encrypt server to server communication between traveler HA servers ?
Ans- As such there is no encryption recommendations between traveler HA servers.

Q2. IBM verse client is very slow comparison to traveler client, any update why so ?
Ans- There were issues reported of IBM Verse client for Android having slow response which have already been fixed in Release 9.0.1.5.

Q3. Is there a way to set the address book look-up to use IBM Notes address instead of an internet address ?
Ans- If mail-in databases, groups and individual person document internet address field is blank, look-up address query will garble these document look-up from traveler active sync devices like iPhone and this is the limitation of Traveler. Currently there is an enhancement to use Notes address during look-up instead of internet address. (Request ID:YYLI-82D6N9)

Q4. Will there be any future support for Traveler clustering in HA environment ?
Ans- Notes Traveler HA capability is already provided for load balancing and fault tolerance. There are no plan for Traveler Domino level clustering in a HA environment.

Q5. How many maximum servers can be added to the HA pool ?
Ans- There is no design limit to how many IBM Traveler servers can be configured in a given pool. However there are practical performance limitations on the total real time transaction processing load to be handled on the relational database server. 

Q6. Is there any capacity formula to calculate the no. of servers count according to the device count ?
Ans- A stand-alone Traveler server support upto maximum 2000 devices and while in HA, single Traveler server can support maximum 2500 devices. You can calculate the server numbers and device count accordingly.

Q7. Least connect or round robin which one is best for Notes Traveler HA Load balancer ?
Ans- Use basic Round Robin without session affinity for load balancers. Load balancer distributes traffic only for the Domino HTTP server. Notes Traveler maintains its own load balance for best performance.

Q8. Communication from internet to load balancer will be HTTPS and communication from load balancer to traveler server will be HTTP?
Ans- You can deploy SSL certificate on your Load Balancer and have request coming on Load Balancer over HTTPS from Internet. Load balancer can internally then communicate with Traveler Server over port HTTP.

However you need to work with Load Balancer team for creating required redirection rules accordingly (HTTPS-->HTTP)

Q9. Is the issue with iOS devices with repeating calendars already resolve ? bug number is 18383561 ?
Ans- This bug is still not resolved but workaround is provided. Please refer IBM below technote for the same.

Title: Some Notes Traveler Calendar entries missing from some Apple devices upgraded to iOS 8
Doc #: 1684863
URL: http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21684863 [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21684863]

Q10. What about the device thread hung solution ?
Ans- If any threads appear hung a StopSync command may be executed, if the thread is related to a sync (DS or PS). However if the command does not kills the held thread, a restart of Traveler is needed to clear up the issue. 

Command: tell traveler stopsync <deviceID> <username> (Use the username in the Thread message).

With latest traveler release many improvements have been done to minimize the reasons of Hung thread.

Q11. Is trash sync also available in Apple ?
Ans- Support for synching the Trash folder on iOS device is available now with IBM Verse client (Traveler Server 9.0.1.3).

Q12. Can we get option for accessing archives kept on server from Traveler client on mobile device ?
Ans- Currently there is no option for accessing archives kept on server from Traveler client on mobile device because traveler can sync only 1 database per profile.

There is an enhancement to have this feature : Request Id : SHIS-8DFRG2

Q13. Can we put Mail server and Traveler Server in one machine ?
Ans- Yes, for smaller deployment, you can put Mail server and Traveler Server in one machine.

However it is not a recommended because Traveler requires very high Disk I/O and having Traveler on Mail server will distribute Disk I/O between Traveler operations and regular mail operation which might affect Traveler performance .

Q14. What is banned document ?
Ans- Banned document is a document that is detected by Traveler server which caused crash. 

Notes traveler will detect a repeat crash scenario for a particular document and ban the document from being processed by the server. The document will remain banned permanently unless the ban is removed by an Administrator. 

Q15. Contacts in apple device do not sync with phone's default contacts causing inconvenience ?
Ans- Yes, as per the traveler design, device created contacts out of Traveler profile will not sync .

Traveler creates a separate profile for Mail,Calendar,Contacts on device. Only data created in this profile will be synched back to Mail FIle and vice versa. Any document created outside Traveler profile on device is not synched with backend server.

Q16. What if we don't copy ntsdb while migration and only copy lotustraveler.nsf ?
Ans- Lotustraveler.nsf does not holds any information.
It just reads data from backend NTSDB and provides a viewable interface to Administrator.

So there is no point in taking backup of lotustraveler.nsf.


Q17. The difference between Traveler app and Verse app for Android ?
Ans- The IBM Verse client compare to Notes traveler client provides a simple, easy-to-use interface with a minimal number of additional configuration settings required. The Verse client allows users to customize how they are notified when new data arrives. Depending on device capabilities, users can set the device to vibrate, display a visual indicator, or play a sound when a new mail message arrives. The Verse client also allows for customization of how much data to sync with the device to optimize the use of device memory.


Q18. Why we need SQL database on HA ?
Ans- The need of SQL database in HA is to have the all of the sync history and administration information for all devices to be stored in the enterprise database using the JDBC connector and this enterprise database can be your MS SQL or DB2. 
This can't be achieved in stand-alone Traveler, since the traveler data is stored in java database and can't be clustered using the Domino server.