Title: IBM LicenseCheck Returned FALSE! at  start Rational testing tool - United States

Text:
LicenseCheck error FALSE!; RST; Rational Service Tester; RATLC02614077; 23408 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Attempts to start IBM Rational Performance Tester (RPT) result in errors like "Unhandled event loop exception". 

SYMPTOM
Besides the error messages, you cannot find other unexpected behavior. You see these errors in the Error log view. 

Steps to reproduce:



 1. Install RST.
    
    
 2. Apply a valid license (either Activation Kit or Floating license).
    
    
 3. Start RST workbench.
    


Expected result: RST starts without the error. 

Actual result: RPTstarts with one, two or all of the following errors. 



 * LicenseCheck Returned FALSE!
   
   
 * Unhandled event loop exception.
   
   
 * Error setting focus to: ...
   


CAUSE
This issue has been identified as a product defect and logged under 13499

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
You can ignore these messages, because they do not have any impact on product functions. 



None of these messages are having any impact on the schedule playback. In general, the Error Log messages are debugging messages. They can be helpful in tracking down problems, but usually are irrelevant. That is the reason why RPT does not even show the Error Log view by default.


The LicenseCheck returned FALSE!
This message is common. It is a status message from the Rational Common Licensing API and does not indicate any licensing problem.


Unhandled event loop exception
These messages can arise from a variety of reasons. In most cases, they are related to workspace status files that are irrelevant to RPT operation.


Error setting focus to ...
This message likely occurs, because the focus between GUI elements in the interface is being dynamically adjusted and the destination is not yet ready. 

 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Service Tester for SOA Quality