Title: IBM SCHD0134I: Scheduler has lost its lease and will no longer run tasks on this application server. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In WebSphere Application Server, the following informational message may appear in the SystemOut.log when starting an application server on which the Scheduler service is enabled:

SCHD0134I: Scheduler MySched1 (sched/MySched1) has lost its lease and will no longer run tasks on this application server. Tasks will now run on server MyCell\MyNode\server2.

This will usually appear right after the Scheduler starts:
SCHD0033I: The Scheduler sched/MySched1 has initialized.
SCHD0038I: The Scheduler Daemon for instance sched/MySched1 has started. 

CAUSE
The Scheduler service in WebSphere Application Server includes a component called the lease manager which ensures that tasks only run one time in a clustered environment. 

As a result, one application server will run all tasks. The SCHD0134I message will appear in the SystemOut.log for all other application servers to indicate that the tasks will run on the other application server. 

This is the desired behavior if all of the application servers are part of a cluster. However, if the Scheduler resource is configured at the node or cell scope, this behavior will occur on all application servers within that node or cell, regardless of whether or not they are members of the same cluster. 

This can cause tasks to run incorrectly if the application servers don't all have the same applications installed.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
To avoid the problem, ensure that your Scheduler resources are only configured at the server or cluster scope. 

When a Scheduler is configured at the server scope, only that application server will run the tasks. When a Scheduler is configured at the cluster scope, one cluster member will run the tasks, and the others will output the SCHD0134I message after the Scheduler starts up.

 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Application Servers Runtimes for Java Technology Java SDK