Title: IBM Performance Monitoring attributes for Windows (NT) OS agent equivalent to those of the UNIX (UX) agent - United States

Text:
5724C040W; Swap Space; Load Average; Windows; UNIX; attribute TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What are the Windows OS agent attributes that are closest or equivalent to the UNIX OS agent attributes Swap Space and Load Average? 

CAUSE
To better understand how a Windows server is performing, use the following ITM Windows agent attributes described below. The attributes shown are similar or equivalent to the Swap Space and Load Average attributes found in the ITM UNIX (UX)) OS agent . 

ANSWER
The closest matches for the “swap space" attributes are the Windows attributes related to "paging space" like these in the System and Memory groups:

Page File Size (MB) - Size of the system paging file, in megabytes.

Commit Limit (Bytes) - Commit Limit is the size (in bytes) of virtual memory that can be committed without having to extend the paging file.

% Committed\Bytes In Use - The ratio of Committed Bytes to the Commit Limit. Committed memory is the physical memory in use for which space has been reserved in the paging file should it need to be written to disk. The commit limit is determined by the size of the paging file.

***

Regarding the UNIX/Linux "Load Average" attributes, the following Windows attributes in the System group are similar:

Processor Queue Length (Threads) - Processor Queue Length is the instantaneous length of the processor queue in units of threads. This counter is always 0 unless you are also monitoring a thread counter. All processors use a single queue in which threads wait for processor cycles. This length does not include the threads that are currently executing. A sustained processor queue length greater than two generally indicates processor congestion. This is an instantaneous count, not an average over the time interval.

Processor Queue Length Excess - Processor queue length has exceeded the total number of processors in the system. This indicates that the processor(s) are not able to service the work load that is requested of them.