Title: IBM ICM text search: Document formats supported by DB2® Content Manager Version 8 text indexing - United States

Text:
ICM; text search; text indexing; INSO; Outside In; Stellent; filter; filtering; document types; file formats; Word; PDF; Lotus WordPro; Adobe; Acrobat TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Other than plain text, what document formats (for example, Lotus Word Pro®, Microsoft Word, PDF) does DB2 Content Manager Version 8 support for text indexing? 

ANSWER
The DB2 Content Manager system supports full text search on the contents of documents stored in the DB2 Content Manager system. 

Before documents can become available for text search, their contents need to be extracted into text indexes maintained by the system. To facilitate the extraction of content from documents other than plain text files, DB2 Content Manager provides an option to use the Outside In filters (provided by Stellent, Inc.) These filters support a wide variety of file formats, including many popular word processing, presentation, and spreadsheet applications. A complete list of supported formats is available at the Stellent Web site; see the link in the Related information section. 

To take advantage of this text filtering functionality, you must specify the appropriate user-defined function (UDF) in the text index properties of your item type or attribute. For an item type, choose ICMfetchFilter as the User defined function name (instead of the default ICMfetchContent). For an attribute, choose ICMfilter as the User defined function name (instead of the default of no UDF). See the online help in the DB2 Content Manager system administration client for more details.

RELATED INFORMATION
 INSO file types supported for text indexing [http://www.stellent.com/stellent3/groups/mkt/documents/nativepage/outside_in_supported_platforms.pdf]





Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Enterprise Content Management Content Manager Not Applicable AIX, Solaris, UNIX, Windows 2000, Windows NT 8.1, 8.2 All Editions