Title: IBM How will sending a Release Notice containing Custodians that are part of one or more Preservation Plans affect the Plans? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How will sending a Release Notice containing Custodians that are part of one or more Preservation Plans affect the Plans? 

ANSWER
The main effect that sending a Release Notice will have on Preservation Plans is that it will mark each individual Custodian that is affected to have the "Release" status. This can potentially create a large number of Alerts to the IT Owners of the affected Preservation Plans, so it's best to understand the interaction between Release Notices and Preservation Plans in order to optimize the release process.

When a paralegal or attorney decides to send a Release Notice that includes Custodians that are also part of one of more Preservation Plans, this will send individual Alerts to the IT Owners of the Plans for each Custodian that is being released. These Alerts inform the IT Owners of the affected Preservation Plans that they need to release the Holds placed on the Custodians' information. By default, the Release Notice functionality cannot assume that all the Custodians on a Preservation Plan are supposed to be released from the Hold, so it will in essence update the status of each Custodian one by one. This simulates the same behavior where an attorney or paralegal updates a Preservation Plan and marks a specific set of Custodian to Release status.

This aspect of sending a Release Notice may overwhelm the IT Owners with Alerts if there are hundreds of Custodians being released. For situations where only a subset of the Custodians are being released from the Hold, there is no way to avoid this behavior. For situations where the attorneys or paralegals want to release the entire set of Custodians from being on Hold, there is a more efficient way to update the Preservation Plans so that a minimal amount of Alerts are sent. The attorneys or paralegals should follow these steps for this latter situation.

(1) The Paralegal or Attorney goes to the Matter and clicks on Holds link.

(2) They can then go to each Preservation Plan that will be affected by the Release Notice.

(3) On the Plan Details screen for each Preservation Plan they can click on the "Request Release" button.

(4) This sets the status of the Plan to "Release" and sends an alert to the Owners of the Plan telling them they need to perform the release.

(5) The Paralegal or Attorney needs to wait for the Owners of the Plans to take action.

(6) The Owners who receive the alert will go into the Preservation Plan and go to the Custodians screen.

(7) The Owners can click on the "All Released" button, which sets all the Custodians to the "Released" status.

(8) The Plan will then be set to a status of "Released". This signifies to the Paralegal or Attorney that the release has been processed by the Owners.

(9) The Paralegal or Attorney can move forward with sending the Release Notice when all the affected plans are processed and in "Released" status.



HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1376