Title: IBM Leap Second adjustments in Informix Products - United States

Text:
 NEWS

ABSTRACT
 "A leap second is a one-second adjustment that is occasionally applied to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) in order to keep its time of day close to the mean solar time. Without such a correction, time reckoned by Earth's rotation drifts away from atomic time because of irregularities in the Earth's rate of rotation. " This article describes the affect of leap second adjustments on Informix products, including IBM Informix Dynamic Server, IBM Extended Parallel Server, and Informix CSDK components. 

CONTENT
The International Earth Rotation Service (IERS) has the task of making sure that clock times match up with the earth's rotation. Because of events such as earthquakes, and objects passing by in space, the earth can experience irregularities in rotation that need to be addressed periodically. Between 1990 and 2015, the atomic clock needed an extra second increment ten times, known as a leap second, in order to correct for rotation variations.
When a new leap second is announced, it can be a challenge for computing at the Operating System level. This happens because the UTC timing interval needs to be adjusted, and this can cause an impact on accurate time interval computing. 

 * Online.log monitoring: DBA's might see an extra value if a leap second is added. For instance, the time sequence of 23:59:60 might be visible at the time of correction by the OS. 
 * Internally: Informix data uses a timestamp which is actually just a counter (an incremental value that cycles over time in a loop), This timestamp counter will not be impacted by the leap second correction. 
 * Datetime year to second data types or CURRENT: Informix datetime seconds can span the range of 0 to 61 seconds in the datetime format. As long as the end user's application handling the value in the datetime does not limit the range to 0 to 59 seconds, the server side datetime seconds value is designed to handle up to 2 leap seconds. The environment variable GL_DATETIME [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSGU8G_11.50.0/com.ibm.glsug.doc/ids_gug_085.htm?lang=en] provides additional formatting options.

RELATED INFORMATION
 The Leap Second [http://www.timeanddate.com/time/leapseconds.html]