Title: IBM How Authentication For SFTP Client Works (SCI30469) - United States

Text:
STERLINGPRI TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How Authentication For SFTP Client Works (SCI30469) 

ANSWER
Currently CONNECT:Enterprise does not support CRL. I believe that there is already a "Enhancement Request" for this feature.

During the hand-shake exchange with CONNECT:Enterprise and a remote. 
We do support for strong mutual (bi-directional) authentication of 
client and server during secure FTP transfers using X.509 certificates. 

This feature has impacts upon multiple
CONNECT:Enterprise products. The present CONNECT:Enterprise UNIX server 
and Client for Windows products make use of X.509 certificates for the 
authentication of a server to a client. As part of the setup of the 
CONNECT:Enterprise UNIX secure FTP server, the administrator must obtain 
an X.509 certificate from a 3rd-party certificate authority and install 
this within the product. As part of a secure FTP session, the secure server 
send this certificate to the client where it is compared to a list of trusted 
root signing certificates. If the certificate has been signed by a trusted 
source, the client permits the secure connection to be established. 

This is only half of the problem however. In environments that demand 
strong security, it is necessary for both the client and the server to
authenticate the identity of the other party. This requires each party 
to maintain both a certificate used to establish their identity and a 
chain of trusted root certificates used to authenticate the identity of others. 
This release of CONNECT:Enterprise will provide client authentication within
the auto-connect client of the base product, Client for Windows, and the 
new command-line client. This capability also requires changes within the 
server to accept and validate the certificate received from the client.

 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 PRI12968 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 

Fact


CONNECT:Enterprise UNIX, Release 1.2.01 
SCI30469


Goal


FAQ: How Authentication For SFTP Client Works