Title: IBM How do I determine where the Maximo report that was emailed to me came from - United States

Text:
tpaerep; schedule report; email from TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I'm receiving a report via email from our Maximo system but I do not know where it's coming from. 

CAUSE
When a scheduled report runs and an email is sent there is nothing obvious to show where it came from or who requested it. This can cause confusion:
- who sent me this report? I don't recall requesting it
- how come I'm getting duplicates of my report
- I don't want this report anymore, yet don't know how to make it stop


ANSWER
There are a few places you, or your administrator can check to help identify the source of the email

Some of these require administrator rights so you may need to have an Administrator assist.

1) Check in Report Administration. Use the View Scheduled Report option to see if the report appears in the list. You would need to do this in all your Maximo environments (Development, QA, Prod, Sandbox, etc). You may need to look at each individually to see the Email To addresses otherwise you may only see your own scheduled reports. You can delete the request from here.

2) You can look is in the Cron Task setup application. Change the filter to "READONLY" so you can see
REPORTSCHEDULE. cron job. From this list you can try to determine if his email is coming from one of those entries. If it's your own request, "Run As User" will likely assist in this regard. You can't delete it
from here but it may help identify which environment it's coming from.

3) Go directly to the database. The tables to check are
REPORTSCHEDULE and CRONTASKINSTANCE

It may take some searching to determine which is the one you are having a concern with and you will need to have some SQL skills to form the appropriate queries. For this one you will need assistance from a DBA or at least have access to the database yourself.

One suggestion I have to help avoid this situation is to include some text in the comments when you schedule the report hat indicate where you are running this report from. On the request page is a free-form Comments field. Enter something like "sent from production" and you will see this in the body of the email that is sent.