Title: IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation currency support for a new version of a mobile operating system - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT DOCUMENTATION

ABSTRACT
 This document explains how the IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation Team supports new versions of the mobile operating systems. 

CONTENT
As new versions of mobile operating systems are released by mobile operating system vendors, IBM plans to provide IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation service updates to support updated operating system levels on the terms described in this document. IBM plans to test internally with available Beta releases from the operating system vendors and intends to provide necessary updates in the IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation service stream as soon as practicable towards the general availability of updated operating system levels.

When a mobile operating system vendor releases a new version of a supported mobile operating system, IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation intends to include support for that version in the latest release available in the market. This policy is not dictated by the Program Technical Support's lifecycle as stated in the product's version announce letter because a new version of a supported mobile operating system is considered a new feature. In other words, we do not plan to introduce support for a new version of a mobile operating system into all of the IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation releases that are in support. This support might be added to older releases as determined on a case-by-case basis. IBM does not intend to extend the support for a new version of a supported mobile operating system to IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation releases that are available for more than 18 months prior to the general availability date of the new version of the supported mobile operating system. 

Note: IBM statements regarding its plans, directions, and intent are subject to change or withdrawal without notice at the sole discretion of IBM. Information regarding potential future products is intended to outline our general product direction and it should not be relied on in making a purchasing decision. The information mentioned regarding potential future products is not a commitment, promise, or legal obligation to deliver any material, code or functionality. Information about potential future products may not be incorporated into any contract. The development, release, and timing of any future features or functionality described for our products remains at our sole discretion. 




ORIGINAL PUBLICATION DATE
 2015/4/3 



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Mobile- Speech and Enterprise Access IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation for iOS Documentation Apple iOS 7.1, 7.0, 6.3 Mobile- Speech and Enterprise Access IBM Worklight Documentation AIX, Apple iOS, BlackBerry OS, Google Android, Windows 6.2, 6.1, 6.0 Consumer, Enterprise Mobile- Speech and Enterprise Access IBM Mobile Foundation Documentation Apple iOS, BlackBerry OS, Google Android, Windows 6.0 Consumer, Enterprise