Title: IBM Validate ICC Configuration Web Service fails with error "Validation of the Configuration Web Service failed. Make sure that the Web application server is running and that the Configuration Web Service application is configured correctly." - United States

Text:
ICC TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Validation of the configuration web service fails in the IBM Content Collector configuration manager. 

SYMPTOM
The following error message is displayed when you click on the Validate button in the IBM Content Collector configuration manager Email Service > Configuration Web Service panel: 

Validation of the Configuration Web Service failed. Make sure that the Web application server is running and that the Configuration Web Service application is configured correctly.


CAUSE
IBM Content Collector configuration web service is not configured correctly or the IBM Content Collector Web Application service is not started.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
 

 * If the IBM Content Collector Web Application service is not started, start the service from Windows Administrative Tools > Services. 
   
   
 * If the IBM Content Collector Web Application service is already started, check the following file for errors:
   %IBMAFUROOT%\WebApplication\profiles\AFUWebApplication\logs\server1\SystemOut.log
   
   For example:
   com.ibm.ws.rsadapter.exceptions.DataStoreAdapterException: 
   DSRA0023E: The DataSource implementation class 
   "com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerXADataSource" could not be found.
   
   
 * One possible reason for the above failure is that IBM Content Collector cannot locate the JDBC driver. 
   
   Check that the path to the JDBC driver provided in the IBM Content Collector configuration manager Email Service > Configuration Web Service > JDBC driver directory is valid.
   
   For example, if you use Microsoft SQL Server as your IBM Content Collector datastore, the JDBC driver directory may be:
   C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server 2005 JDBC Driver\sqljdbc_1.2\enu
   
   Important: Do not include the filename of the driver or a backslash at the end of the path
   
   
 * Save any changes in the configuration manager. Click on the Validate button. You should see the message "Configuration Web Service validation successful."