Title: IBM What are the meanings of Capture IFI statistics in the cap.log file? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What are the meanings of Capture "F", "N" and "EOL" IFI calls in the job or cap log file? 

ANSWER
In the Capture log file or the joblog file the following messages appear:
Total number of EOLs received from IFI = 86615 
Total number of F calls issued = 122907 
Total number of N calls issued = 13 
Total time spent in IFI = 183780 milliseconds 
Total sleep before IFI calls = 461940000 milliseconds 

This information from Capture describes how the program interacted with the DB2 log record interface or IFCID 306. IFI is an acronym for the DB2 Instrumentation Facility Interface. The 306 interface obtains changed data information from the DB2 logs.

These statistics are informational and intended to aid IBM support if SQL Capture or Q Capture are experiencing problems. 

EOL means "end of log" and tells you how many times Capture read to the end of the DB2 active log file.

F - Used as a first call to request log records beyond the LRSN or RBA specified in WQALLRBA that meet the criteria specified in WQALLCRI (from the DB2 Administration Guide - SC18-9840-02).

F is used by Capture to request a specific log record. An example of an F call is when Capture first starts and uses the value in the min_inflightseq column of the IBMSNAP_RESTART table to request a log record or when Capture reaches EOL and pauses.

N - Used after mode F or N calls to request any remaining log records that meet the criteria specified in WQALLCRI. * and any option specified in WQALLOPT (also from SC18-9840-02).

N calls are used by Capture to get the next log record after an F or N call. If Capture did not reach the end of the log, N calls would be issued to keep getting the next log record. Another example would be capture using N calls to read a unit of work with several inserts or updates followed by a commit.

Total time spent in IFI documents how long Capture spent making and waiting on DB2 log read calls.

Total sleep before IFI calls explains how much time Capture spent in pause mode after reaching the end of the log. This is controlled by the Capture sleep_interval parameter.