Title: IBM Case Manager(ICM) ConfigCMOS Task fails - United States

Text:
ICM configCMOS TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 After upgrading IBM Case Manager (ICM) to 5.3 and then running the configCMOS 

task for any Object Store, it can fail with the following error: see symptom. 

SYMPTOM
The required case management folders could not be created for the object 

store." + "Parameter name is either null or has an invalid value.


CAUSE
A document from the Connection Definition class can cause this if the document is missing a value.


ENVIRONMENT
ENV: Case Manager 5.3
OS: Linux



DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Go to the Connections Definitions folder inside inside of FileNet Content Engine Administrative 

Console for Content Engine (ACCE) , to see if any of the documents inside this folder are missing a 

 value, such as the 'Document Name' value. 

In order to find these documents, please follow these steps; 


1. Open ACCE, click on Object Store. 


2. Go To Browse Folder. 


3. Root Folder. 


4. IBM Case Manager Folder. 


5. Audit Configuration. 


6. Connection Definitions. 


7. Click on Contents Tab.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
You can either delete or change the class of the Document from Connection Definition to just a 

standard Document Class. 


Here are the steps to search and change the class for the relevant document.

1. Start the IBM Administrative Console for Content Platform Engine (ACCE) 


http://<hostname>:<port>/acce. 


2. Open up the Object Stores folder. 


3. Click on the relevant design object store(DOS) to open new tab for the DOS. 


4. Click on the Search at the bottom of the left pane to open the Saved Searches tab. 


5. Click on "New Object Store Search" button to open New Object Store Search tab. 


6. From the Simple View tab; 


6a. Select "Connection Definition" for the Class. 


6b. You can also add criteria where "Date Created" is "Less or Equal" to "Time the Erroneous 

Document was created" - Date is shown under the Date Created Column, under the Contents Tab, in 

the Connections Definitions folder in ACCE. 


6c. Click Run. 


7. Click on the relevant document to open new tab, the name should have the GUID of the erroneous 

document in the Connections Definitions folder in ACCE. 


8. Click the Actions drop down and select "Change Class". 


9. Select "Document" from the Class list drop down. 


10. Select "Change the class of all versions". 


11. Click Ok.

You also can simply delete the file instead of changing it's class. 

 

In that case, after step 7, do the following; 


- Click the Actions drop down and select "Delete". 


- Click Ok. 


This should resolve the issue and you should be able to run the task.