Title: IBM How to perform a Network install including the Sentinel License Manager and SPSS or Modeler Clients? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I would like to perform a network install with my IBM SPSS Software. 
The install documents provided on the CD do not provide a set of step by step instructions. How do I perform a network installation? 

ANSWER

Given you have a network authorization code please follow the instructions below to assist in Network install of IBM SPSS software.

REM : IBM SPSS Statistics has been used as example in below procedure. 

1) Decide on a machine that you wish to be the host server (Sentinel RMS LM) to which other machines will connect for license verification. Generally, you will want this machine to be a high-availability machine 24x7. The software does not require heavy processing.

2) Install Sentinel RMS License manager as a separate program apart from the application (IBM SPSS Statistics, IBM SPSS Modeler,...). 
1. Open and explore the DVD and browse to the directory Windows\Administration\Licensing\NetworkLicenseManager.
2. Run the Setup executable (setup.exe).
3. After Sentinel RMS is installed you may add the Authorization/License code 
via Network License Manager Licensing:
- Select one of the following :
o License my product now
o Enable for temporary usage
via a DOS CMD shell :
with the command 'spssactivator' or 'licenseactivator' [authorizationcode or licensecode].
This command should be executed in the WinNT subdirectory of the Sentinel RMS LM installation directory.

Once the Sentinel RMS LM is successfully installed, licensed and running (it is a windows service) you may now install the clients. Please note that it is a requirement to restart the Sentinel License Manager service whenever changes (either addition or removal of licenses) are made. Otherwise, these changes will not be displayed within the Sentinel RMS Administration tool.
To install the clients, please follow the steps below:
1. When prompted for install options choose "Network"
2. Use the IP address or Name of the Host Machine containing the Sentinel LM installation.

Your clients should now have IBM SPSS Statistics/Modeler installed and connected to the License host.




RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Modeler forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/modeler/?smartspace=predictive-analytics]
Need more help? Our Licensing forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/spsslicensing.html]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 60852