Title: IBM How to set the Default Options for Workspace Advanced Users - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 You can set default Workspace Advanced options for users that are different that the default options that come with Workpace Advanced to remove the need for each user to manually change the options manually. 

SYMPTOM
By default Workspace Advanced opens in Preview Mode which runs the report with a preview of data when opened or created and you want it to open in Design Mode for all users by default, without having to instruct all users to make the change manually in Workspace Advanced Tools > Option dialog


ENVIRONMENT
Cognos Workspace Advanced 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
You can create custom User Interface Profile and set the options you want for your users.


Steps: 

1. Enable Customer User Interface profile. Performing this step will move the current User Interface Profiles from the Security tab in Cognos Administration to the Library tab. This is not reversible and it is recommended you backup the content store and test before implementing in a production environment. See documentation link below.

2. Copy existing Workspace Advanced Profile to create a custom Workspace Advanced profile you can edit
- Go to Cognos Administration > Library tab. Select User Interface Profiles
- Click the down arrow icon beside Cognos Workspace Advanced, select Copy
- On the Save as a copy window that appears, provide a unique name for your new custom profile. Click Ok
- Your new custom profile will appear

3. Edit new custom Workspace Advanced profile
- Click the down arrow icon beside your new custom Cognos Workspace Advanced, select Edit
- Make the desired changes

To change the option that opens Workspace Advanced in Design Mode, in section Default Settings > UI Visual Behavior set property Start Page View to Page Design.

4. You can set Permissions to the existing profiles so users have access to them when they open Workspace Advanced. If a user has access to multiple profiles they will be prompted to select from their available profiles and given the option to use it as their default Profile to avoid being prompted to select one.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Enabling custom user interface profiles [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSEP7J_10.2.2/com.ibm.swg.ba.cognos.ug_cra.10.2.2.doc/t_asg_enabling_custom_ui_profiles.html]