Title: IBM SDK - Supported IE Browsers with IBM Cognos Products - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Are Internet Explorer versions below IE 11 supported in IBM Cognos Products beyond 2016 ? 

CAUSE
Very limited support for previous versions of Internet Explorer for IBM Cognos Products.

ANSWER
Each IBM Cognos Product has a listing for Browsers in the IBM Products Software Compatibility Reports , and they should be consulted by everyone , even before contacting IBM for Support. 

These reports are based on the Development Conformance Documents for our Products, and something not listed simply means , not supported for the product. 

There is a quick link below which will get you to the start of the Cognos Product Compatibility Reports. 

You can generate the report for your version of IBM Cognos Software , select "In Depth Reports" with "Detailed System Requirements" for your version, and set all options enabled. 

Once the report has run, go to the "Supported Software" Tab, and select "Web Browsers" 

Please always check in the Report listings the "Components" , the "OS Restrictions" , the "Notes" and the "Details" > "View" entries , as they contain crucial information on the particular item listing. 

Here are the Internet Explorer examples for content , which is dynamic and can be changed by IBM since the Publication of this Technote : 

For Cognos Analytics 11 and up, only IE 11 and up are supported for example, but not on Mobile. 

For Cognos 10.2.x, you will find that there are restrictions on support in using IE 8 , IE 9 and IE 10 with IBM Cognos products. 

For IE 8 and IE 9 , the notes state , that these are no longer supported based on Microsoft announcing the end of support in January 2016. 

IBM Cognos Real Time Monitoring and Lifecycle Manager are the only C10.2.x products which still have a support entry for the IE8 / 9 browsers. 

For the Microsoft end of support information , see the second quick link below for those details at Microsoft. 

For questions and concerns on the 

RELATED INFORMATION
 IBM Product Software Compatibility Reports [http://www-969.ibm.com/software/reports/compatibility/clarity/index.jsp]
(R) Microsoft Browser information [https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/WindowsForBusiness/End-of-IE-support ]


 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos Business Intelligence Windows 10.2.2, 10.2.1, 10.2, 10.1.1, 10.1, 8.4.1 Edition Independent