Title: IBM Agent Builder subnodes are not displayed in alphabetic order in the TEP - United States

Text:
custom agent builder navigator item subnodes nodes name teps tep browser wrong incorrect order itm jar java TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In TEP browser client, the Agent Builder subnodes are not displayed in alphabetic order and as a consequence data may not match the appropriate attribute group.


SYMPTOM
The subnodes are expected to display alphabetically under the Agent Builder node but they do not. After retrieving the data for each subnode, the items actually displayed don't match the attribute groups they belong to. 
Another symptom may be that attribute groups from older versions of the same agent may still be in the TEP display. 


CAUSE
Whenever a change is made to the attributes of an existing Agent Builder agent, the TEP Client jar files will not be updated or in sync with the TEPS. 

The problem only occurs when using the TEP Browser client. The client caches information about the navigator node names in jar files that are deployed by the TEPS to the requesting TEP client.
The jar files are stored locally on the TEP machine in the Java cache, which helps in reducing network traffic when accessing applications.
When a change is made to the Agent builder application, a newer version of the jar file is not deployed to your TEP client so your TEP client will be out of sync with the TEPS Agent Builder application. 


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The Java plugin cache must be cleared 


On Windows:
1) Open Windows Control Panel and double click on Java (or Java Plugin) 
2) On the general tab, click on "View" button under "Temporary Internet files". This will display all the jar files previously downloaded
3) Find and select the jar file belonging to the Agent Builder, if your agent was K79 it would be displayed as K79_resources.jar. Click "delete" for the appropriate jar file.
4) Close the window and exit 
5) Restart the browser and reconnect to TEPS. This will force the TEP browser application to import the newer new version of the jar file. At this point the Agent Builder subnodes and data will be corrected. 

 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 IBM Tivoli Monitoring Agent Builder V6.x