Title: IBM (TR0153) Transformer can't read the database - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Get the following error when trying to build a cube or open up the cube model file using Cognos Transformer. 

SYMPTOM
Open a model file using Cognos Transformer 10.2. A portal login will be presented. Upon login, the transformer application will generate the error (TR0153) Transformer can't read the database.
With the model file open, when test using the Data Sources-> Data Source Viewer, a similar error is generated.

In the BI portal, test of the database in which the package data source used by Transfomer model however test fine. 


CAUSE
The published package in the BI portal as originally used by the transformer model was moved to a different location. Transformer embed the data source details in the model file and when it is open or when a cube is built, it read this data source detail in the model to access the database. In this case it could not find the package data source in the original location it was originally using.

ENVIRONMENT
Windows 2008 server

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
(1) Ascertain using Cognos Transformer what datasource the model is using. In this case it was using a package.
(2) Test using Transformer Data Sources-> Data Source Viewer and see whether data can be retrieve. 
(3) If one get same error in step (2), try creating a new datasource in the Transformer against the same package or report and then test this new datasource using Transformer Data Sources-> Data Source Viewer again. In this case the new datasource succeed in getting data. This confirm something has happen to the location of the package.
(4) If step (3) still generate an error, one would need to test the database connection created in Cognos BI Portal administration for the package is properly configured and test fine.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Create in Transformer a new duplicate data source using the same package and columns as used by the data source that is of issue. Once created, delete the old problematic data source and rename the new data source with the name of the deleted old data source name. Save out the model file before any cube build.