Title: IBM Can I get the information necessary to graph fixed predicted values from the SPSS MIXED procedure along with standard errors? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I'm running a mixed model in SPSS MIXED. I know that the procedure doesn't offer charts. I would like to be able to graph fixed predicted values, along with their standard errors, at specified levels of a predictor. How do I get the values to plot? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
One way to go about this is to request the predicted values and their standard errors be produced as output via the use of TEST subcommands, each one specifying a desired linear combination of the fixed predictors be estimated. The OMS (Output Management System) procedure could be used to capture the results in a data file (see Technote 1479718).

Another way to go about this is to create some dummy cases with the desired combinations of values on the predictors, and save the desired variables directly to the dataset. MIXED will save fixed predicted values and their standard errors (on the SAVE subcommand, the keywords are FIXPRED and SEFIXP, respectively, and you can ask for them in the dialogs via Save). If all of the combinations of predictors for which you want SEs are represented in the data, you can just re-run the model saving these, and then pluck the values from the file. Assuming that they're not all represented (and also, it makes it somewhat easier to work with if they're all right together anyway), you can go in and add some dummy cases with the desired combinations of values of predictors, leaving the dependent variable missing, and run the analysis, saving the fixed predicted values and their SEs. Since these cases are missing on the dependent, they won't be used in the analysis and your results should be unaffected, but since they do have the information necessary to save fixed predicted values and their SEs, the procedure can (and does) save these (not all procedures do this when they can, but most do). If you add these all at the beginning of the file, then you can just run it and you'll have the data you need to make the graph right there at the beginning of the file

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 74316