Title: IBM Can SPSS save user-defined missing values as SAS "special" missing values? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I'm using SPSS for Windows and I have defined several values in certain variables as user-missing: "Refused", "DK", etc. When I save my SPSS dataset into SAS using SAVE TRANSLATE, I was expecting that the user-missing values would be stored in SAS as the equivalent -- so-called 'special' missing values. It's not working that way -- the values I have defined as missing are being stored in SAS as valid values.

Why is this happening and what can I do? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
In SAS, the basic system-missing value is represented by a '.'. But SAS, as you alluded, also allows the user to define 'special' missing values for numeric variables. These values are represented by a letter or an underscore (_), and can be defined in SAS as in this example:

proc format;
value q1f
.A='Not home'
.R='Refused'
;
run;

In one step, SAS both assigns the value labels and registers the values as 'special' missing data. By defining these 'special' missing values in this manner, SAS can tabulate the values separately, and yet will still treat them as missing data. 

If you have real values in SPSS that you have labeled "Refused", "DK", etc., and have then designated those values in the Missing column of the Variable View as User-defined missing, those values are still real data -- you've just instructed SPSS to ignore them and treat them as system missing instead.

There's no way currently to automatically convert those real values to system-missing during the export to SAS, unless you get the SAS Universal ODBC driver and use the new Export to Database functionality in SPSS version 15.0. That dialog will give you the option to save all user-designated missing data as nulls or spaces (i.e., how system missing data would be saved). But that would lose the label content for those values.

A lot of the problem is that SAS treats such user-missing data as "special" missing data and actually stores it as modified data values instead of meta-data -- data dictionary information -- the way SPSS does. Resolution 31952 describes the situation from the other direction: importing SAS data into SPSS and seeing those "special" missing values read into SPSS as plain system-missing.

A feature request has been filed to handle the SAS "special" values in a way more consistent with their intent.

In the meantime, I'm afraid there are only two options:

1. If you want your user-missing data to be system-missing in SAS, recode your user-missing values to system-missing values in SPSS first
2. If you want your user-missing data to be "special" missing in SAS, recode the values in SAS after opening the exported file

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 71409