Title: IBM TR0120 Transformer can't write to a file - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Building a cube fails with the following error: 

Error:

(TR0120) Transformer can't write to a file. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
This error is result of a lack of resources to complete the cube build. Cube build generally require 2.5 - 5 times the amount of free space to the actual size of the cube (eg: 10 meg cube may require 50 megs of free space). Higher ratios of free disk space may be required depending on the complexity of the model design.

1. If the cube is being built in the temp folder or in a folder on a drive with insufficient space, it will cause this error.

The steps to check the paths where Temp is pointing to is as follows:

a. Open PowerPlay Transformer model.
b. File > Preferences > Directories tab.
c. Check the path of the cube and path for Data temporary files, Model Temporary files and log files.
d. Ensure that the output directory has enough space for the cube to be written.
e. Ensure that there is Read and Write access to directories specified in this tab.
f. Ensure that the temp files are pointing to a drive where there is enough space.
g. Also, if writing to a LAN drive, check that the network is not experiencing difficulties by writing a file to that location. If you receive errors due to the network being down contact your system administrator.

2. Review the Transformer log file and cognos.ini cerX.ini file. When the logfile indicates that the Category generation has quit in the row .... of the data source ..., the solution is to increase the SortMemory parameter in the xxx.ini file.

SortMemory is at default 512.
Increasing this parameter to 1024 or 2048 will give more memory to the sort processing of the data source information, for example, 512 * 2048 bytes = 1048576 or 1 MegaByte.

The WriteCacheSize for the Transformer process is by default 16384 kilobytes (16 MB), and increasing this value to double the amount can also solve this error. Transformer processing improves with as much memory allocated as is possible in the environment.

3. Having the Read/Write CacheSize setting set as random figures, i.e. ReadCacheSize=10000, can cause this error as well.
-- change the settings in the CerX.ini file so that the numbers corresponds to proper MB settings

1MB=1024KB
2MB=2048KB
4MB=4096KB
etc.

4. With Transformer closed, search the working drives for *.qy* files and delete them. These are check point files used by Transformer and can be left behind after a failed cube build.

5. With the least amount of applications running as possible, search the local drives for *.tmp and *.temp files, and delete as many as possible to clean up temp directories.

6. On a Windows machine, there may be a folder called Windows Update that contains temporary download files from the Microsoft Windows Update site. If all updates have completed then these files can be deleted to free disk space.

7. Run a defragmentation tool on the local drives, this will help to consolidate files and free disk space.

8. If this is being run through a terminal session there may be a resource limitation set for the profile of that session. Run the cube build locally not through the session.

 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Analysis Studio Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Transformer Business Analytics Cognos Series 7 Transformer 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 118069