Title: IBM Tivoli Enterprise Portal (TEP) client jar file certificates expires November 1, 2018 - United States

Text:
 FLASH (ALERT)

ABSTRACT
 The current Java certificates for the IBM Tivoli Monitoring portal client jar files will expire on November 1, 2018. This technote provides the procedure to update TEP support files when expired certificates are encountered. 

CONTENT
Note depending on when and what ITM applications get installed, it's possible to encounter an expired certificate at any point you add additional applications to your environment. Regardless of availability of specific application updates, you can have your jar files updated with the latest certificate anytime before the expiration date. There is no need to wait until after the expiration date to get the jars updated. 

Update certificates at the current maintenance levels of IBM Tivoli Monitoring products installed as follows: 


Contact IBM support by opening a PMR/Case requesting the updated certificate for Tivoli Enterprise Portal server (TEPS) support files. If opening a PMR, use COMPID 5724C04EP or 5724C04PS; if opening a Salesforce case, use "ITM Platform".


You will need to send the jar and zip files from your Tivoli Enterprise Portal Server (TEPS) located as follows:

UNIX/Linux
<InstallDirectory>/<Architecture>/cw/classes

Windows
%CANDLE_HOME%\CNB\classes 

Once the submitted files are updated, Support will then publish the update for download and notify the customer.

Once the jar files are downloaded from IBM support, copy the files back to the same location on the TEP server noted above in this document. After the jar files are copied back to the TEP server there is no further action needed on the tep server side. The TEP server does not need to be reconfigured nor does it need to be restarted. On the TEP client side the java plugin jar cache should be cleared in order to force the download of the newly signed jar files to the client machine. This can be accomplished by going to Windows control panel and opening the java plugin control panel. From the "General" tab in the plugin control panel press the "Settings" button under the "Temporary Internet Files" heading, then press the "Delete Files" button. Once the delete is complete, restart the TEP client to force the download of the newly signed jar files from the TEP server.

RELATED INFORMATION
 IBM Tivoli Monitoring Portal changes required for Java [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21659560]