Title: IBM CPLEX strategies for finding good feasible solutions quickly when solving MIPs - United States

Text:
feasible solution; performance TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I have a MIP problem where CPLEX eventually finds an optimal solution, but it takes a long time to do so.The nature of my application requires a good feasible solution within a few minutes. What should I do? 

ANSWER
 CPLEX's default settings for integer programming emphasize finding an optimal solution. In cases where finding a good feasible solution quickly is most important, consider setting the mipemphasis parameter to 1 if the defaults don't find a good feasible solution quickly enough. . While this may increase the time required to find an optimal solution, it typically enables CPLEX to find more feasible solutions during the course of the optimization. This setting causes CPLEX to search nodes further down in the tree, where most of the good feasible solutions lie.

Also, CPLEX offers a feasibility pump heuristic that you can apply at the start of the MIP optimization. By default CPLEX does not use this heuristic because it is relatively expensive, and cheaper default heuristics often do well enough. But, if the default settings don't yield good feasible solutions quickly enough, consider turning on the feasibility pump heuristic parameter to invoke this heuristic. 

 Also, CPLEX's FeasOpt feature can help find good feasible solutions quickly when the MIP optimization (even with some of the non default settings mentioned above) struggles to do so. However, because FeasOpt solves a related problem with an objective designed to find feasible solution, the solution it finds typically may not have a very good objective function value relative to the original MIP. Therefore, you will probably want to follow the FeasOpt run with a regular MIP optimization with settings designed to improve upon existing feasible solutions. Such settings including setting the MIP emphasis to 4 to find hidden feasible solutions, heavy application of the RINs heuristic by setting the RINs heuristic frequency parameter to a modest number of nodes (e.g. 20-100), or switching to CPLEX's solution polishing feature early in the MIP optimization. 

Finally, if your application absolutely requires that you have a solution after a limited amount of time, consider using your own heuristic procedure to construct an initial feasible solution. Then, pass that solution, or specify its objective value as a cutoff, to CPLEX at the start of the MIP optimization. Set an appropriate time limit along with the previously discussed parameter settings, and optimize the MIP. CPLEX will either find a better solution before the time limit, or you can use your original solution. In either case, your application has a feasible solution to the MIP.

 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Commerce IBM ILOG CPLEX Optimization Studio General AIX, HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, Mac OS 12.2 All Editions 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 cplex/FAQ/32