Title: IBM Why RPT response time without a true client is valuable - United States

Text:
RPT; client; comparison with WRT; SLA; 71RRT-ROBPLAN; 71RRT-ROBREC; 71RRT-ROBRPTG; 71RRT-ROBWV; 71RRT-PLAN; 71RRT-RPTG; 71RRT-WV TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Why should you use RPT (Rational Performance Tester) scripts, since these scripts playback without a client? 

ANSWER

RPT (Rational Performance Tester) scripts are not intended to measure or simulate user response time. Instead, RPT scripts monitor web-based application availability and response time. 

For an RPT script, because you are not monitoring a real client, the way the WRT (Web Response Time) monitor does, the client time is simply an expression of the time it took to run the script as the remainder of the response time, minus the network time and server time. 

The client time that RPT scripts report includes such things as script initialization overhead and verification point processing. In some cases, the client time can be as little as zero, since the RPT engine does not report values less than one millisecond.

The WRT (Web Response Time) and RRT (Robotic Response Time) agents provide two different ways of monitoring web application response time.

WRT measures the response time that real users experience when they access your web applications. RRT, in comparison, provides continuous reporting on the health of your web site -- by repeatedly playing back scripts that represent synthetic users.

For example, if your web applications are not being accessed at 2:00 AM, WRT is unable to alert you that your web site is down or that web pages are not available. RPT scripts, on the other hand, continuously monitor the web site to warn you of issues that you need to correct -- before real users encounter these problems.

In addition, robotic response time is often used to document compliance with an SLA (Service Level Agreement) where drops in performance may have legal or financial consequences – if performance drops below a predefined level.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Why server time can be different for the same RPT scrip [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21639238]
Reporting "Delay" time in RPT http playbacks [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21500899]




HISTORICAL NUMBER
 25687.082.000 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 ITCAMfT