Title: IBM ReporterPLUS feature does not launch after upgrade - United States

Text:
Rhapsody; license; date-based; date; feature; version; ReporterPLUS; reporter TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 After you have updated the release of IBM Rational Rhapsody, it is working correctly, but ReporterPLUS does not launch. 

SYMPTOM
Attempts to launch ReporterPLUS from within IBM Rational Rhapsody (Rhapsody)results in the following error:

Rhapsody Reporter Pro license could not be obtained.

Reason:

The FEATURE name ReporterPro with version 2009.0531 cannot be found
License server system does not support this version of this feature.
Feature: ReporterPro
License path: <license path>
FLEXnet Licensing error:-25,147


CAUSE
Rhapsody uses date based licenses. 

When you try to run a feature in Rhapsody, it will check the date it was released against the date in your license.

So your license does not expire with an update. But you can not use features that were released after their concerning dates in the license.

It is possible, that some of the features in your license have older dates.

Thus you may be able to run parts of a newer version of Rhapsody, but not all of the features you could run in an older version.


DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
When you examine this message you see that Rhapsody is looking for a ReporterPro feature in your license with a date of 2009.0531. 


If you compare that to your license, you can see the features, but they have a date of either 2007.1231 or 2009.0228:

...
FEATURE Reporter telelogic 2007.1231 permanent 3 \
...
INCREMENT Reporter telelogic 2009.0228 permanent 3 \
...

The license for ReporterPLUS is valid in this case, when the installed version of ReporterPLUS was released before February 28, 2009.

So, the version of features of Rhapsody that are supported by this license and the installed features are out of sync.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Use either an older version of ReporterPLUS, which is supported by your license. 


Update your license otherwise, to support the current feature version(s) of Rhapsody that you wish to use.