Title: IBM The Cognos TM1 connector cannot be configured if the IBM Lightweight Third-Party Authentication (LTPA) token expires - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 If the LTPA token expires while you try to configure the Cognos TM1 connector, you cannot continue nor save the configuration 

SYMPTOM
In the IBM Cognos TM1 Connector stage, a login panel and one of the following error messages are shown: 

 * Error 403: The session session_id is expired or was not found. 
 * Error 404: Handler instance that is associated with the session_id could not be found in the pool.

The unauthorized error message appears in the IBM Cognos TM1 Connector stage editor. 
CAUSE
The IBM InfoSphere DataStage Designer client uses an LTPA authentication mechanism that is configured in IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment or IBM WebSphere Application Server Liberty Profile. The Cognos TM1 connector also uses LTPA authentication for its configuration. If the LTPA token expires, you cannot continue to configure the stage or save the configuration.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Configure the connector configuration before the LTPA expiration timeout. You can also increase the LTPA expiration timeout value by completing one of the following tasks. However, increasing the LTPA expiration timeout value might increase the risk of security exposure. 

On WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment version 8.5.5:
1. In the WebSphere Application Server console navigation pane, click Security > Global Security.
2. Under Authentication, click LTPA.
3. In the LTPA timeout area of the LTPA page, edit the value for the LTPA timeout, and then click OK.
4. Click Security > Global Security.
5. Click Apply. 

For more information about LTPA, see the 
LTPA topic in the online product documentation for WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment in IBM Knowledge Center.

On WebSphere Application Server Liberty Profile version 8.5.5:
1. Open the server.xml file with a text editor. The file is in the following directory:

On Microsoft Windows:
IIS_installation_directory\wlp\usr\servers\iis\server.xml 

On Linux and UNIX:
IIS_installation_directory/wlp/usr/servers/iis/server.xml

2. Edit the value for the expiration attribute of the LTPA element. 
For example, <ltpa expiration="760m" />
3. Save the server.xml file.
For more information about LTPA, 
see the Configuring LTPA on the Liberty profile topic in the online product documentation for WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment in IBM Knowledge Center.




Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Information Management InfoSphere Information Server