Title: IBM Metadata Asset Manager interface suddenly stops responding - United States

Text:
is87relnotes metadata asset manager imam87relnotes imam91relnotes is91relnotes imam10relnotes imam113relnotes imam115relnotes TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 The user interface of IBM InfoSphere Metadata Asset Manager stops functioning correctly and either displays no error messages or general or abstract errors. 

SYMPTOM
The user interface previously was working correctly but no longer responds, fails to load new interface elements correctly, or fails to display requested results. For example, the Import wizard dialog might stop updating the import status. In some cases, no error message is displayed that indicates an error has occurred or the nature of the problem. In other cases, the error may be of a general or abstract nature such as one of the following: 

 * Sorry, an error occurred. 
 * An unexpected response or error was received. 
 * You do not have privileges to access the requested server resource. 


In some cases, the login form appears embedded within the GUI. 
CAUSE
If no error appears or the interface fails to function properly, this is usually due to a network, connectivity, or server problem that prevents new content from being served to the interface. It's possible the issue is transient; for example, if a data request must wait for a database connection, or a server request timed timeout. 
In InfoSphere Metadata Asset Manager, the interface might also stop responding or errors might appear if the WebSphere Application Server LTPA security token has expired. The LTPA security token expires by default after 760 minutes of session activity.


DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
If it is not a network or server problem, WebSphere logs usually contain clues as to what caused the failure. If an LTPA token expires, there should be messages such as following found in the SystemOut.log: 

 * 
 * SECJ0371W: Validation of the LTPA token failed because the token expired with the following info: Token expiration Date:
 * 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Click the Logout link or reload InfoSphere Metadata Asset Manager. If there is a network or server problem, the interface fails to display and an appropriate error response should be displayed in the browser. Otherwise, the application should load and either function properly or display an appropriate error message. Further troubleshooting may be required for any persistent network or system problems. 

LTPA token expirations can usually be ignored and are not likely to occur frequently, but if they continue to be a problem, you can increase the LTPA token timeout setting for WebSphere Application Server. Consult WebSphere Application Server documentation for information on changing the setting.




Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Information Management InfoSphere Information Server Information Management IBM BigInsights InfoSphere Data Click Linux Red Hat - xSeries, Linux SUSE - xSeries 2.1.2