Title: IBM Outbound data sitting in the Send Queue (925) - Sterling Gentran:Server for Microsoft Windows - United States

Text:
STERLINGPRI TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Outbound data sitting in the Send Queue (925) 

SYMPTOM


Outbound data sitting in the Send Queue 
When a Send/Receive communications session is initiated, it runs and the data is received but outbound data is left in the Send Queue. When receiving, getting an error when trying to open the Interchange drawer, "Failed to create empty file". Able to open the In and Out drawers and boxes, and outbound interchanges are shown as queued in the send queue, but the transmission had been sent.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM


Hard Drive is full. Files located in the following directories can be moved or deleted outside of Gentran:Server for Windows; because, they do not contain pointers within the database.

Note: Many of these directories may contain important files that need to be backed up, such as .MAP files. Do not delete the directories themselves, because some are used during normal Gentran processing. Always stop the Gentran services before deleting from any of these directories, as deleting files currently in use by Gentran may cause processes to fail. Sterling Commerce always recommend being careful of what is deleted from Gentran:Server for Windows whether the delete is performed from within Gentran or from the Windows file system.

‚· Archive - Files can be moved/deleted from here; however, you will be removing Archive Definitions
and Archives. This could cause Process Control Events to fail.
‚· ErrorData - Files can be moved/deleted from here.
‚· Exports - Files can be moved/deleted from here.
‚· Forms - Files can be moved/deleted from here; however, there may be .STP files stored here that
will need to be backed up. 
‚· Imports - Files can be moved/deleted from here.
‚· IpcMsg - Files can be moved/deleted from here.
‚· Maps - Files can be moved/deleted from here; however, there may be .MAP files stored here that
will need to be backed up.
‚· Partners - Files can be moved/deleted from here; however, there may be .PAR files stored here that
will need to be backed up. Note that the partner configurations used by the system are stored in the database tables. 
‚· Temp - Files can be moved/deleted from here.
‚· TransIn - Files can be moved/deleted from here.
‚· TransObj - Files can be moved/deleted from here; however, there may be .TPL files stored here that
will need to be backed up.
‚· Tutorial - Files can be moved/deleted from here; however, you will lose the tutorial's sample partners,
maps and data.
‚· Unattend - Files can be moved/deleted from here: however, you will be removing sessions and/or
calendars from within Process Control. This could cause Process Control Events to fail.



 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 PRI20999 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 

Fact




Gentran:Server for Windows. All Releases