Title: IBM Object store or File store icon displayed as yellow warning on the FileNet Content Engine Health Check Page - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Object store or File store icon displayed as yellow warning on the FileNet Content Engine (CE) Health Check Page. 

SYMPTOM
Yellow warning icon for the object store and the file store but CE doesn't exhibit any issue.
CPE Health page: http://<CEServer:port>/P8CE/Health/OS


CAUSE
 

Building the information on the CE Health Page uses the Content Engine Bootstrap user account. The bootstrap user account is the user that the CPE application uses to start up and is defined in the Bootstrap and Text Extraction task in FileNet Configuration Manager. The CPE bootstrap user should have access to the Global Configuration Database because the GCD database is needed during startup. However, there is no requirement that the CPE bootstrap user have permissions on Object 
Stores. If the bootstrap user does not have permissions on the Object Stores, the information on the CE Health Page cannot be assembled properly and warning or error will be shown for the Object Stores and/or the associated Storage Areas. 

When this situation occurs, you will generally see errors in the CE error log indicating the bootstrap user has insufficient access rights to perform some operation. If everything is working correctly, the problem with the health page likely can be ignored. 

To correct the issue with the Health Page, ensure the CPE bootstrap user has full control on the object stores and storage areas. To give a user or group permissions on an object store correctly, run the security script as documented in the link below: 

http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSNW2F_5.2.0/com.ibm.p8.security.doc/p8psh025.htm [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSNW2F_5.2.0/com.ibm.p8.security.doc/p8psh025.htm] 


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Ensure the CE bootstrap user has permission to the Object store and the file store. 

 

 1. To modify security on a storage area using ACCE, open the object store
    
    
 2. Expand Storage
    
    
 3. Expand Storage Areas
    
    
 4. Open the storage area
    
    
 5. Select the Security tab.
    
    
    OR


 1. To modify security on a storage area using FEM, open the object store Properties
    
    
 2. Select the Properties tab
    
    
 3. Select the All Properties radio button
    
    
 4. Select the dropdown next to property "Storage Areas", 
    
    
 5. Select the storage area from the list and that will display another Properties page specific to the storage area selected. There you will find a Security tab for the Storage Area.