Title: IBM Install client as network getting error 7001 sym 18 when launching Statistics - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I have installed SPSS/Statistics or Amos versions 19.0 and above as network and point to the server for license. The SLM is running on the server with license. When I launch Statistics on the Client, I receive one of the following errors:

Statistics:
Error # 7001
There is no license for SPSS Statistics.
This command not executed.
Specific symptom number: 18

Amos:
No valid license for Amos was found. (1, 18)
Or

Clementine / Modeler:
No license key found: Sub-code 18 

SYMPTOM
18


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
The is happened for a few reasons: 

1. Verify make sure you do have permission to the product. To ensure that, try to right click on Statistics shortcut and choose Run As Admin. 

2. Even if you are installed Statistics as network, there might be an invalid license on the local drive. To ensure that, try to navigate to Statistics install directory (c:\program files\ibm\spss\statistics\21) 

Find and open spssprod.inf with Notepad. 

Check to make sure DaemonHost= is pointing to the server 

Find and open LSERVRC with Notepad. Make sure it is nothing in it. 

3. On the server, open wlmadmin or the Server Admin. 

Check under the subnet server and expand the server's name. 

Verify make sure there is feature code 1200 210 (for v21) This represent the base which the client is first to look for. If you don't have 1200 then there is something wrong with the code. Give your authorization code to tech or client care to have them return the code and add the Base feature 1200 to it. 

Then rename or delete LSERVRC on the server. 

Find and right click on LAW.exe and choose Run As Admin to activate again. 

You should get new LSERVRC. 

Restart SLM services 

Check wlmadmin again to make sure you do have 1200 

Launch Statistics on the client again.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]