Title: IBM Issue using Clementine Batch, receive: Connection to the server refused. - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Issue using Clementine Batch, receive: Connection to the server refused.
Attempting to operate Clementine Batch against a "server enabled client."
When I try to activate Clementine Batch using "clemb -stream change.str" I get the following:
Connecting to server xxxxxx@localhost:28047 ...
Password: Failed to connect to server xxxxxx@localhost:28047
Error: Connection to the server refused. Please check the following:
1) That Server is running.
2) That any firewalls have been correctly configured.
3) That port specifications for the Server are sufficient.
4) That the max_sessions option for the Server is high enough.

Also, receive a message asking for a password which I do not have since I am not actually running server. 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
If running a standalone copy of Clementine Batch (not the one that is installed with Clementine client). that will by default attempt to connect to Clementine Server on the local machine to execute the stream. 
Note: Stand alone CLEMB has no execution engine of it's own. When CLEMB is trying to connect to Clementine server on localhost:28047, it is failing. You get that error if you run a command such as the following and don't have Clementine server installed or running on localhost on the specified port: C:\Program Files\SPSSInc\ClementineBatch12.0\bin>clemb -stream c:\temp\batch.str)

Either install/start Clementine Server on localhost for clemb to execute against, or tell clemb to execute against a remote Clementine Server using the relevant command line options (-server etc.). There are details in Chapter 3 of the Clementine Batch Users Guide (and a summary can be obtained by running clemb -help from the command line.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Modeler forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/modeler/?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 79145