Title: IBM Does Rose Web Publisher support publishing for browsers other than Netscape and internet Explorer - Like Opera or Mosiac? - United States

Text:
web publisher; browser; 1125563 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Does Rose Web Publisher support publishing for browsers other than Netscape and internet Explorer - Like Opera or Mosiac? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
QUESTION:
Does Rose Web Publisher support publishing for browsers other than Netscape and internet Explorer - Like Opera or Mosiac?


SHORT ANSWER:
In order to be able to successfully view Rose models published via the Rose Web Modeler, you would need either Netscape 4+ or Internet Explorer 4+. 


DETAILED ANSWER:
----------------------------------
The Rational Rose Web Publisher addin's requirements
include web browsers that are Java-enabled; i.e. browsers
that can handle Java applets and Javascripts. The two main
and "popular" browsers today are Netscape (version 4+) and
Internet Explorer (version 4+). These two browsers have long
been in competition and both have evolved and improved 
enormously over the years. The latest version of the Netscape
browser is 6.1. The latest version of the Internet Explorer
is 6.0.
Although other browsers do exist in the market, they
don't seem to win much popularity mainly due to their long
lists of limitations relative to Netscape & Internet Explorer.

The Opera browser (by Opera Software) is one example
of those browsers. The latest version is 5.12 and can be
downloaded as a freeware from www.opera.com. Now this browser
does indeed support both Java applets as well as Javascripts.
Unfortunately, The web artifacts generated by the Rose Web
Modeler does not behave correctly under Opera. For example,
the Web Publisher creates an applet that represents the
left-handside tree-like model browser. Under Netscape and
IE, this applet runs just fine. However, under Opera, 
eventhough opera support Java applets, the applet crashes.
One can individually view the generated web files under
Opera, but that seem to defeat the purpose.

The NCSA Mosaic is yet another one of those browsers
that failed to gain any popularity. Years ago before Microsoft's
Internet Explorer barely hit the market, Mosiac was up there
with Netscape - competing side-by-side. That's not the
case any longer. The latest version of Mosaic is 3.0 and
it can be downloaded from www.ncsa-uiuc.edu as a freeware.
Unfortunately, The web artifacts generated by the Rose Web
Modeler does work at all correctly under Mosaic.

 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 22464