Title: IBM Dragging and dropping the scroll bar does not update the view - United States

Text:
RATLC01548296; scroll; bar; mouse; freeze; not working; unable; click; drag; drop; stalled TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 In IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD), IBM Rational Software Architect (RSA) and other Eclipse-based products, when you attemp to drag the scroll bar with the mouse button and drop it (either above or below) in a view, the scrollbar comes back to its initial place and the view is not updated. 

SYMPTOM
Steps to reproduce: 

 1. Open an eclipse project in the Project Explorer
    
    
 2. Make sure that the scrollbar is displayed in the Project Explorer, either by expanding the content of folders or jar archives or by adding elements to the project
    
    
 3. Drag the scrollbar and move it either down or up. Notice that the Project Explorer's view has not been updated as it should be.
    
    
 4. Drop the srcollbar anywhere and notice that it will instantly move back to its original position and that the view is still not updated.



NOTE :  * This issue has been observed in the Project Explorer, the Package Explorer, the Outline View, the Search view and on most other views as well, but it does not happen in the Navigator View.
   
   
 * This issue has not been observed in any editor.
   
   
 * If you are using a mouse that has a wheel, the wheel will work as expected and the view will be properly updated.
   
   
 * If you click on the scroll arrows, the view will also be updated correctly.
   
   
 * If you click between the scrollbar and the scroll arrows, the view will also be updated as expected.
   
   
 * If you use the down and up keys, or the page down and page up keys, the view will also be updated appropriately.


CAUSE
This issue happens under Microsoft Windows 7, when the Microsoft Windows XP Compatibility mode option has been checked for the eclipse.exe executable. The problem does not occur with Microsoft Windows XP itself.

ENVIRONMENT
 

 * Microsoft Windows 7
   
   
 * Microsoft Vista
   
   
 * RSA/RAD/Other Eclipse-based products (32-bit architecture) from v3.4 to v4.3

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
SOLUTION 

Deactivate the Run this program in Compatibility Mode for Windows XP option in the properties of the eclipse.exe file that is located in the product installation directory. By default, this is C:\Program Files (x86)\IBM\SDP for RAD and RSA. 

 

 1. Right-click the eclipse.exe file
    
    
 2. Select Properties in the context menu
    
    
 3. Go to the Compatibility tab
    
    
 4. Clear the Run this program in Compatibility Mode checkbox.



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational Software Architect for WebSphere Software Eclipse Windows 7.5.5.5, 8.0, 8.0.1, 8.0.2, 8.0.3, 8.0.4, 8.0.4.1, 8.0.4.2, 8.5, 8.5.1, 9.0 Software Development Rational Software Architect Eclipse Windows 8.0, 8.0.1, 8.0.2, 8.0.3, 8.0.4, 8.0.4.1, 8.0.4.2, 8.5, 8.5.1, 9.0