Title: IBM How to change a namespace and delete old namespace - United States

Text:
namespace; delete; existing; CM-SYS-5104; CM-CFG-5125 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Trying to delete old namespaces and add a new namespace with an existing name 

SYMPTOM
Cognos was not starting, these messages were seen in diaglog box 

CM-SYS-5104 Content Manager detected the unconfigured
security namespace "NAME" (ID "NAME") in the content store database.
CM-CFG-5125 Content Manager cannot create a namespace with
the name "NAME1" and ID "NAME1_ID" because a
namespace with the same name but with a different ID "NAME1" already
exists in the Content Manager data store.
20:12:42, 'ContentManagerService', 'StartService', 'Failure'.



CAUSE
Namespace was not deleted from the content store 

DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
Cognos was not starting, these messages were seen in dialog box 

CM-SYS-5104 Content Manager detected the unconfigured
security namespace "NAME" (ID "NAME") in the content store database.
20:12:42, CM-CFG-5125 Content Manager cannot create a namespace with
the name "NAME1" and ID "NAME1_ID" because a
namespace with the same name but with a different ID "NAME1" already
exists in the Content Manager data store.
20:12:42, 'ContentManagerService', 'StartService', 'Failure'.


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
1. Get every user to move all content in their My Folders to a unique folder in public folders in Cognos Connection. 
2. Delete all namespaces in Cognos Configuration and start Cognos
3. Login to Cognos administration as an admin
4. Delete all namespaces (Cognos Administration -> Security -> User, Groups and Roles -> there should be a red X next to all namespaces that were deleted from Cognos Configuration)
Note once you delete all these namespaces any content in users my folders will be deleted and cannot be recovered
5. At this time you can rename the namespace in Cognos Configuration or leave the name as is 
6. You should only have one namespace at this time
7. Users can now login to the new namespace and move contents that they placed in public folders back to their My Folders
8. You will then have to add security back for users under the new namespace.


Note- If users content in my folders is not needed skip steps 1 and 7