Title: IBM Report Studio Stuck at initializing / Browser specific issues - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This is a IE8 browser specific issue and is happenning on only a single computer. If the user uses a different computer to access Report Studio, it works fine.

If we try to launch Report Studio by clicking on the icon under actions for a report OR via Launch > Report Studio, the Report Studio browser opens. However, it stays stuck at Initializing forever and doesn't finish loading. 

SYMPTOM
1. Start IE 8 without add-ons : 

 
Click the Start button on the Taskbar, click All Programs, click Accessories, click System Tools, and then click Internet Explorer (No Add-ons). 

Now test launching Report Studio. 

On using IE without add ons: 

HAL ERROR: 
_XP9._LD7() must be called in the HTML body. 

2. Try deleting browser history: Delete the Browser History and cache and then launch IE 8: 
Keyboard shorcuts: Ctrl + Shift + Delete > Enable all the checkboxes here and DISABLE only the first "Preserve Favorites website data". > Delete. 

NOTE: Make sure to disable the favorite checkbox if you have Cognos link added to your favorites. 
Close IE and relaunch IE without add ons as in step 1 and do the testing. 
Deleting history didn't help. 

3. Download supported version of Firefox and test? 
Make sure to use a version Firefox as listed on the supported environment page. (see link)

Report Studio initializes correctly and seems to be working. 


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Solution to Fix IE 8: 

 
Close all Internet Explorers. Open a single IE. Or go to internet options via Control Panel. 

In IE, go to Tools > Internet Options > Advanced Tab > Hit the Reset button at the bottom > Enable the checkbox for "Delete personal settings" > Reset. Close IE and reopen it to do the test. 

Works fine now. 

If the above doesn't work, make sure the version of IE you are using is supported. Reinstalling IE might be required if the reset doesn't work.


RELATED INFORMATION
 Cognos Supported Environments [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg27042164]