Title: IBM Optim Manager or Optim Management Server might not deploy after installation or function properly after deployment - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 IBM® Optim™ Manager or Optim Management Server either cannot be deployed after installation or does not function properly after deployment. 

SYMPTOM
The following symptoms might occur: 

 * You cannot log into the manager. 
 * The manager or management server does not function properly after you are logged in. 
 * You cannot deploy the manager or management server WAR files.


CAUSE
There are not enough file descriptors available because the ulimit -n value is too low for the application server sofware on your UNIX or Linux operating system.



DIAGNOSING THE PROBLEM
View the server.out and server.log files for your application server software (for example, WebSphere Application Server Community Edition) on your UNIX or Linux operating system. If the files contain messages indicating that too many files are open, check the value for ulimit -n (also known as NOFILES). If the value is less than 20 000, proceed with the following instructions.



RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
To resolve the problem: 

 1. Uninstall the manager and management server WAR files.
    
 2. Shut down the application server (for example, WebSphere Application Server Community Edition).
    
 3. In the shell that runs the application server, increase the ulimit value (NOFILES) by adding the following command to your .profile file:
    
    $ ulimit -n 20048
    
    
 4. Restart the application server.
    
 5. Re-deploy the manager and management server WAR files.





Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Information Management Optim Management Console AIX, Linux, Solaris 2.1.0, 2.2.0, 2.2.1 Information Management Optim Manager AIX, Linux, Solaris 2.2.0, 2.2.1, 2.2.2 Information Management Optim Data Privacy Solution AIX, Linux, Solaris 2.1.0 Information Management Optim Data Masking Solution AIX, Linux, Solaris 2.2.0