Title: IBM Will the Leap Second 2015 update have any impact with FileNet Content Manager? - United States

Text:
leap second; UTC clock; UTC; CPE TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Will the Leap Second 2015 update have any impact with FileNet Content Manager? 

CAUSE
A leap second will be inserted at the end of June 30, 2015 at 23:59:60 UTC. 

ANSWER
A leap second is a one-second adjustment that is occasionally applied to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) in order to keep its time of day close to the mean solar time. Without such a correction, time reckoned by Earth's rotation drifts away from atomic time because of irregularities in the Earth's rate of rotation. Since this system of correction was implemented in 1972, 25 such leap seconds have been inserted. The most recent one happened on June 30, 2012 at 23:59:60 UTC. A leap second will again be inserted at the end of June 30, 2015 at 23:59:60 UTC. 

The Leap Second adjustment in the UTC clock on June 30th, 2015 should have no impact on any FileNet Content Manager system, regardless of release level. In most cases, customers would not even see the one second of clock drift. Typically, either a customer has all of their servers synchronized with a system that is tied to an official clock, which will be adjusted by the leap second (in which case they will all adjust automatically) or they have none of them synchronized with such an official clock (in which case none of them will automatically adjust). In the latter case, the servers would be one second out of sync with official atomic clocks, but would still remain in sync with each other.

FileNet Content Manager does depend on synchronized clocks between servers, but this synchronization is not so sensitive that anything bad would happen if Content Platform Engine Servers and clients drifted one second out of sync. If systems were out of sync by a minute or more, then we might expect to see problems, but one second is inconsequential. So even if only a subset of a FileNet Content Manager servers are adjusted for the leap second, no adverse issues should arise.