Title: IBM Admin Insert User (IU) method question - United States

Text:
Insert user; AUTH file; SPOE; IUI; admin; passwords; proxy; C:D TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 You can create a Proxy or SPOE on the mainframe using the IBM Sterling Connect:Direct for z/OS Admin Insert User function (IU). This enables you to do proxy from a remote user xxxxxx@remotenode to a USERIDA on the Mainframe Sterling Connect:Direct. For this to work you must know the password for USERIDA and enter this as part of the process and ensure CASE SENSITIVE is set to yes. The password may be stored in a secure location and retrieved. Great care must be taken, when entering this password in the IU process. If this is entered wrong and other users use this Function ID from other remote users or nodes, then a password would have to be reset or restored. To avoid this risk of getting the password wrong or a need to even know the password, if while in the IU function a Select (SEL) is chosen for a user yyyyyy@remotenodex to USERIDA, (A known working Secure Point Of Entry (SPOE) found in Select User (SU) and stats), then update this entry retrieved to bexxxxxx@remotenode followed by Insert (INS).

By this method a new SPOE is created to function ID USERIDA without the risk of getting the password wrong or the need to know the password. This method is restricted to the ADMIN function anyway.

Is this a recommended method to do a SPOE ADMIN IU? It works and it does the following:

- Avoids risk of typing a password incorrectly.
- Removes the need to know the password. 

ANSWER
This method works perfectly fine this way, as long as the additional external userids are supposed to be mapped to the same internal userid. There is also an alternative method available which we have documented in Technote 1970386 in our knowledge base and that is to display the hidden password in the IUI.

RELATED INFORMATION
 How to view the 'SEC PASS' or 'PASSWORD' fields [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21970386]