Title: IBM Misc questions on Reconcile Process and Accessing the web while reconciling - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 QUESTIONS: 

1. A consultant assumed that until Reconcile was completed you wouldn't be able to see any changes in the browser. He has a client who claims that when he opens up a browser prior to completion of the Reconcile on the server that he can see the data that was linked in and changes made to Dlists. Is there some priority of things that happen during the Reconcile process that may account for him seeing the data and changes prior to completion of the Reconciliation? He asks this question because his Reconciliation can take up to 17 hours and I think he's looking to see if he actually has
to wait the entire 17 hours before assuming the application is ready for the users. IF the reconcile process is still running AND a user tries to access the website AND the restructuring for that particular elist item(s) has completed THEN the user will be able to see their changes immediately 

2. IF the reconcile process is still running 
AND client side reconciliation is allowed AND the user tries to access the website AND their elist item(s) have NOT YET BEEN restructured on the server (and you see the box around the "state") does trying to open the elist item force an immediate client-side reconciliation or do they just have to wait until that elist item is ready on the server or other? 

3. IF the reconcile process is still running AND client side reconciliation is allowed AND the user is already logged into the website AND their elist item(s) BECOME restructured on the server do they then get the "data held on the server is different...." message can they then do a client-side reconciliation? 

4. I understand that while reconciliation is running it will cause the processes of loading the browser and saving data from the browser to be degraded we think we can deal with that with separate job and web-servers. Again, our main concern is when, if ever, does the user have to wait for the entire reconcile 
to run before they can access the changes. 

5. Can a reviewer "force" the reconciliation of the child nodes or does he have to wait until they're reconciled? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
ANSWERS:

NOTE: The first 3 answers above assume that the user is the current owner of the contribution node. If they are not, there may be intermediate steps involved. Again, there is a distinction between reviewer and contributors. Reviewers (when opening a review node) will need to wait until all contribution nodes rolling up to that review node are reconciled. Again, if client-side reconcile is enabled, the reviewer may be able to reconcile unreconciled child nodes.

1. Prior to the elist being reconcile you will receive the error "it is not possible to view the items until they have been restructured. As long as that contributors node has been reconciled, they will see the changes and be able to enter new data. Note I said contributor, a reviewer might have to wait until all the contribution nodes rolling up to the review node they are trying to open are reconciled.

2. Yes. The user initiates a client-side reconciliation if they click on a node (elist item) that the server hasn't gotten to yet. After this completes they can see new data and enter and save data.

3. They may not need to do a client-side reconcile. In fact, in the scenario you have described they probably would not need to. There can be other factors though. In any case, if client-side reconcile is enabled, they will be able to reconcile a node if they need to.

4. The user never has to wait for server reconcile to complete if client-side reconcile is enabled and they are the current owner of the node (elist item) they are trying to open.

5. Reviewer can initiate reconcile of these nodes if:
1) reviewer edit in ON
2) the reviewer has EDIT rights or above on each of the nodes
3) the node(s) is not currently being edited by another user

 

Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos 8 Planning Contributor ExcelAddIn 8.1 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1002683