Title: IBM How to start a standby content manager without first starting the primary (active) content manager - United States

Text:
encrypted security prevent cannot TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 This document describes how to start a designated stand-by Content Manager without first starting the primary Content Manager (i.e., the one that is normally the active Content Manager). If the proposed solution is not correctly implemented, errors like the one below could result when attempting to start/use the other Cognos 8 components in this environment. 

SYMPTOM
1. [ ERROR ] CAM-CRP-1132 An error occurred while attempting to request a certificate from the Certificate Authority service. Unable to connect to the Certificate Authority service.

CAUSE
The active Content Manager acts as a Certificate Authority to the other Cognos 8 components whereby only components whose cryptographic keys match those of the Content Manager are allowed to communicate. For any stand-by Content Managers, the Create symmetric key store setting in Cognos Configuration (Security --> Cryptography --> CSK settings) should be set to False to ensure it will use the keys of the primary Content Manager rather than generating its own keys (which wouldn't match the keys of the other components which would be in synch with the keys of the primary Content Manager). 

There is another setting in Cognos Configuration called Store symmetric key locally?. When this is set to False on a stand-by Content Manager, it will store the cryptographic keys taken from the active Content Manager in its java.exe process every time its service is started. When Store symmetric key locally? is set to True the keys will be saved onto the hard drive. Therefore, when Store symmetric key locally? is set to False the stand-by Content Manager can only ever be started after the primary Content Manager has been started. However, if this is set to True then the stand-by Content Manager only needs to be started after the primary Content Manager has been started once, subsequently you can start the stand-by on its own even if the primary hasn't been started.

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
Ensure that Store symmetric key locally? is set to True in the Cognos Configuration of the stand-by Content Manager.

Steps:  1. Open Cognos Configuration
 2. Click on Cryptography (under Security)
 3. Ensure that Store symmetric key locally? is set to True

RELATED INFORMATION
# [\] Cognos 8 Installation and Configuration Guide: Configuring Cognos 8: Configuring Content Manager Computers: Configure Environment Properties for Content Manager Computers: Steps for Standby Content Manager Computers 




Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Data Manager Business Analytics Cognos 8 Business Intelligence Install and Config Business Analytics Cognos ReportNet ReportNet 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 1024600