Title: IBM Oracle Text Search process is still running.  Please try again later. - United States

Text:
database configuration; text index; MAXIMOTSSYNC; TPAEORACLE TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How long must I wait for the Oracle Text Search process to complete before configuring. 

CAUSE
Database Configuration changes which modify database objects cannot be executed until the MAXIMOTSSYNC background job is quiesced. (This job runs at five minute intervals to synchronize the text indexes with recent data changes.)
When you configure changes this job is set to a disabled state, but it may already be running. Configure will wait briefly then check to see if the job is still running. If it is, then configure will exit with the message "Oracle Text Search process is still running. Please try again later."

If there has been a large amount of recent activity on the system, such as a data load, a large workorder generation from PMs, or a reorder process, it may a few minutes before the job will complete. 

Once the job has completed its current run you can retry configuring. A five minute wait is usually sufficient. 

If the job is still running after 10 minutes, you may be encountering APAR IZ95791. (This has been fixed in versions 6.2.8, 7.1.1.9. and 7.5.1 or higher.) If you are encountering this APAR you can obtain the fixed version of the maximo_ts_job procedure from the Related Links below.

Note that the Configure utility methods are used by installation, upgrade, and update utilities, so this same message can also occur when maxinst or UpdateDB is run. The solution is the same.


ANSWER
Five to ten minutes.

RELATED INFORMATION
 APAR IZ95791 [https://www-304.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg1IZ95791]
Tech Note with fixed maximo_ts_job [https://www-304.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21262037]


 



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Systems and Asset Management Tivoli Service Request Manager AIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows 2003 server 6.0, 7.1, 7.2 All Editions Systems and Asset Management Maximo Asset Management Essentials