Title: IBM Using the SPSS Tables Syntax Converter - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 I have heard of the SPSS Syntax Converter engine, implemented in SPSS 11.5 that changes my old Tables command syntax to CTABLES commands. Where can I find it and how do I use it convert my command syntax? 

RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
If you are running SPSS 11.5.1 or later, you may convert your old tables syntax to CTABLES command syntax thorough 1 of 2 options. SPSS Menus or Dos prompt. 

NOTE: that for both instances, you must have your syntax file saved.

The first and Simplest method is accessing "SyntaxConverter.sbs" through SPSS Menus.

1. From the menu select Utilities->Run Script.
2. Select syntaxconverter.sbs from the scripts folder in your SPSS directory. 
3. You will be prompted with a dialogue box where you may select the path and name of the original Syntax file.
4. Next create the name of the new command syntax file or use the path and name of the old file to replace it.
5. Click OK, you may now open the newly converted syntax file.


Otherwise, follow the directions below to activate the syntaxconverter.exe engine.

1. Select either MS Windows Start->Programs->Accessories to open a Dos Prompt or Start->Run to open a Run window.

2. Within either the DOS prompt or Run field, specify the file path of SPSS on your machine, followed by \syntaxconverter.exe; be sure to enclose the entire path in quotes. This will ensure that file names with spaces and tabs are recognized by the Syntax Converter.

3. Follow this with one space, and then type the file path and name of your original syntax file with .sps extension; DO NOT enclose this path in quotes. 

4. Follow this again with a space, and type the path and name of a new .sps file, DO enclose this path in quotes. Your commands for the syntax converter should look like this

"C:\Program Files\SPSS11.5\syntaxconverter.exe" C:\Program Files\SPSS11.5\oldsyntax.sps "C:\Program Files\SPSS11.5\newsyntax.sps"

5. Select <ENTER>. The Syntax Converter will take at most a few seconds to run. Make note of this as you will not be prompted of this change in either SPSS or DOS.

6. You'll find the file NEWSYNTAX.sps in your default SPSS directory. Open it and run it as needed. Note that it will have preserved non-TABLES commands in the new syntax file.


There are a few limitations and possibly unexpected behaviors in the Syntax Converter that you should be aware of:

(a) Syntax errors are neither recognized nor corrected by the Syntax Converter.

(b) The Syntax converter cannot convert tables commands containing syntax errors or Observation subcommands using the TO keyword (var1 TO var5).

(c) String literals broken into segments by + signs will have these signs included. So using a command such as "My" + "Title" will appear as 'My + Title'.

(d) The Syntax Converter will not honor macro calls.

(e) If the file named as the target syntax file ("newsyntax.sps" in the above example) already exists, the Syntax Converter will overwrite any content in the original without prompting. Be careful in specifying your target file name.

RELATED INFORMATION
 Need more help? Our Statistics forum is Live! [https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/statistics.html?smartspace=predictive-analytics]


 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 30157