Title: IBM How do I set up, configure and use the Commuter License option within IBM SPSS Statistics? - United States

Text:
 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I understand that IBM SPSS Statistics allows end users to check out licenses for the application to use remotely. How do I set up, configure and use the Commuter License option within SPSS? 

ANSWER
Please follow the steps below to begin using the Commuter License feature: 

1. To enable the Commuter Licensing, first either modify or remove the -com <percentage> parameter in the LSERVOPTS system environment variable on the SPSS Sentinel License Manager. The <percentage> represents the total percentage (0-100) of licenses that are commutable. Default value is "0". Either change this or remove the -com parameter completely. 

For example: 

-l "C:\Program Files\SPSSSentinelLM\\Logfile.txt" -com 50 -f "C:\Program Files\SPSSSentinelLM\\Logfile.err"

This change allows 50% of the licenses to be commutable.

To edit this environment variable, choose Control Panel->System->Advanced then click the Environment Variables button at the bottom of the dialog box. Edit the LSERVOPTS line by selecting it in the System Variables area. After this change, you must reboot the machine; restarting the License Manager will not enable Commuter Licensing. 

2. Attach the portable computer to network.

3. Install SPSS for Windows on portable computer. The default duration for a commuter license is 3 days with the default maximum threshold set at 7 days. The maximum threshold can be lowered or raised up to 30 days by modifying the value specified in the "SPSS_COMMUTE_MAX_LIFE" system environment variable. 

The maximum threshold can also be automated as part of a push installation when you add the COMMUTE_MAX_LIFE property to the MSI file or as a parameter to the command line installation. Please see the installation instructions for further information.

4. To check out a license, choose SPSS Commuter License from the application program group. Next, highlight the desired module(s), enter the desired interval, and click the "Check Out" button. You will be able to utilize the checked out modules while disconnected from the network. 

When a license is checked out, a red check-mark appears next to the feature and the number of available licenses is decremented accordingly. Wlmadmin shows that a commuter license is in use. If an additional SPSS module is checked out without the Base module, Base is automatically checked out with the additional module.

When you are ready to return the license, connect the portable computer to the network, select the checked out module(s), and click "Check In". Alternatively, you can allow the interval to lapse and the licenses will be automatically returned to the license commuter pool



Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Analytics SPSS Statistics 21.0, 20.0, 19.0, 18.0 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 59826