Title: IBM Warning BMXAA5518W - A resource file was specified when this file was originally imported. - United States

Text:
import; import report; warning; resource; BMXAA5518W; TPAEREP TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 I receive the above warning message when I try to import my modified report and I am not sure which option to select. 

CAUSE
This message will appear when you try to import a report that was previously imported with a resource file. The Resource file may have been used to provide a new logo specific to this report or, if this is a multilingual environment, may have been used to include the labels for the additional languages.
The message you see is:

[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21601172&amp;aid=1]



ANSWER
Although the Import function is described in the Report Admin and Design Guide as well as the Report Development Guide, there is no mention of this warning message. The options are briefly described in the dialog, but we'll expand on them a bit here for clarity. 

 

[YES] Select this option if you do need to include a resource file and neglected to specify it on the previous screen when you selected your report design file to be imported before pressing the [OK] button. When you select [YES] you will simply return to the previous dialog. 

[NO] Select this option if you are aware that you did not specify a resource file and, in fact, no longer want to use the resource file that was previously used with this report. This is the option that can cause the most grief if you select it inadvertently you may lose your modified report logos or localized report labels.

[OK] Select this option if you are ready to import this report and the resource file that was used previously will still be used. This is the most common selection. Use this option if you have modified your report layout by adding fields, totals, sorting or grouping as well as formatting such as bold, underscores or fonts, etc. These types of changes do not require you to re-specify your resource file 

A description on the purpose of the Resource File can be found in the aforementioned guides (Report Development and Report Admin and Design)