Title: IBM Error: 'Unable to locate program' when Program document runs - United States

Text:
unable to locate program ; program ; program document TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
When a Program document attempts to runs against a mail database, the following error is returned: 

 * 
 * 
 *  
 * 

CAUSE
The Program document was filled out incorrectly. The "Program name" field contained the user's mail database, and the server command was entered in the "Command line" field.


ANSWER
The Program document should be filled out as shown below, according to the Domino Administrator Help: 








In a Program document 

To run a task on a server at a regularly scheduled time or at server startup, create a Program document in the Domino Directory. You can also use a Program document to run a UNIX shell script or program, or an API program. 

If you create a UNIX shell script or API program, you can use any of these characters for the name: A - Z, 0 - 9, & - . _ ' / (ampersand, dash, period, space, underscore, apostrophe, forward slash). Do not use \ (backslash) or any other characters because this can cause unexpected results.  

 1. From the Domino Administrator, open the Domino Directory. Go to the Servers view, and open the Server document. 

2. Choose Create - Server - Program.

3. On the Basics tab, complete these fields:



Field Enter Program name The name of the server task you want to run. (I.E. Compact, Convert, Fixup, or Updall) Command line The command that starts the task, including any arguments to the command. (Example if you wanted to run Load Compact Mail/Uname.nsf -A you would only enter Mail/Uname.nsf -A in this field) Server to run on The full hierarchical name of the server on which to run the task. Comments A program description or additional information. 

4. Click the Schedule tab, and then complete these fields:  

Field Enter Enabled/disabled Choose one:  * Startup to run the program only when the server starts. 
 * Enabled to schedule the task to run at specific times.

Run at times The first time of day you want the task to run. Repeat interval of The number of minutes before the task should run again. Days of week The days of the week when the task will run. 

5. (Optional) Click Administration, and then enter the names of additional owners/administrators. 

6. Close and save the document. 

Tip To view all tasks scheduled to run on a server, use the Show Schedule command.