Title: IBM Fix list for IBM Content Navigator Version 3.0.2 - United States

Text:
 PRODUCT DOCUMENTATION

ABSTRACT
 The following table contains the complete listing of fixes for Version 3.0.2. 

CONTENT
APARs fixed in IBM Content Navigator Version 3.0.2 

APAR Description IO25380 (IBM FileNet Content Manager users) When a user attempts to open a document in the Daeja ViewONE Professional viewer that contains custom annotations, an error occurs. Although an error may not occur, custom annotations are not shown in the Daeja ViewONE Virtual viewer. With this fix, documents containing custom annotations open correctly in both the Daeja ViewONE Professional and Virtual viewers. IO25433 (IBM Content Manager users) When previewing, if the context root of the ICN web application has multiple levels, an error occurs. With this fix, documents are previewed without an error. IO25454 (IBM Content Manager users) On a folder having child folders and grandchild documents, after launching workflow and opening the step processor, when a user opens the properties of a grandchild document from the content tab and attempts to Edit and Save, the step processor is not closed by default. With this fix, the step processor is closed by default. IO25459 (IBM Content Manager users) When previewing PDF documents with images, a black box is displayed instead of the image. With this fix, the image is displayed. IO25460 (IBM Content Navigator users) When using the command line to generate a profile for a WebLogic/Oracle environment, the configuration tool always sets the database type to DB2. With this fix, the issue is resolved. IO25468 (IBM Content Navigator users) IBM Content Navigator configuration tool fails to create "Update the FileNet P8 Client Connector Files" task in the profile when CMISV1.1 is specified in the command line mode. With this fix, the issue is resolved. IO25469 (IBM Content Navigator for Microsoft Office users) Stored searches created in Workplace XT that search for folders display the error message: "1601;The search cannot be run." When opened. With this fix, these searches can be opened to display the correct search results. IO25489 (IBM Content Navigator for Microsoft Office Users) A Content Manager user was not able to select an ext string foreign key choice list string that was less then the max length defined for the ext string. With this fix the user is able to select such a string." IO25511 (IBM FileNet Content Manager users) When a user downloads a document as original, the file is downloaded with a .bin or .dat file extension instead of the extension associated with the original file. With this fix, the document is downloaded with the original file name and file extension. IO25512 (IBM CMIS) The entry "CHECKINCOMMENTPROPERTY=CHECKINCOMMENT" in the repository.properties file is not commented out. With this fix, this entry is commented out. IO25513 (IBM Content Manager users) When viewing PDF documents using the Applet viewer, signatures are not visible. With this fix, signatures in PDF documents are visible. IO25518 (IBM Content Navigator users) When opening a search that runs-automatically and returns a single folder, the search results list displays the contents of the folder. With this fix, searches that run automatically and return a single folder will display the actual folder in the search results list. IO25528 (IBM Content Navigator users) An error occurs on the attempt to do a multi-document download containing a document from a class that has a multi-value property. With this fix the error no longer occurs. IO25529 (IBM FileNet Content Manager users) Using drag-and-drop, the attempt to move a document into a folder that already has a link to the document, results in the creation of a new link (relationship) between the folder and document. With this fix, a new link will not be created. IO25531 (IBM Content Navigator users) When an EDS update provisions a new value and a NULL choice list for a dependent property while authoring a document, the choice list is removed but the field is not updated with the new value. With this fix, the choice list is removed and the field is updated with the value provisioned by EDS. IO25532 (IBM Content Manager users) Using EDS service, when an value for a multivalued attribute is updated with a value that does not meet the format specified for it in the attribute data, a generic error message is displayed instead of the custom error message that is specified in the formatDescription for the attribute data. With this fix, the custom error message specified in formatDescription is displayed. IO25533 (IBM FileNet Content Manager users) When adding or checking in documents with new annotations during Merge and Split, an error occurs. With this fix, documents can be added and checked in. IO25534 (IBM FileNet Content Manager users) When large and complex choice lists are used, opening the property dialog for a document can take several seconds. This fix introduces lazy loading for choice lists which reduces the time required to display property dialogs that contain large and complex choice lists. IO25538 (IBM Content Manager users) If a user changes a document item type to a type that has a required property that is not set, clicking save will not highlight the required property that needs to be set. With this fix, if a required property is not set after changing item types, clicking on the save button will change focus to the required property and display an error message. IO25540 (IBM FileNet Content Manager users) When opening a document using a bookmark in a right-to-left language such as Hebrew, the document content fails to display. With this fix, the document content is displayed correctly. IO25543 (IBM Content Manager users) When viewing PDF documents with images using the Applet viewer, images are displayed as cropped. With this fix, images in PDF documents are displayed correctly. IO25550 (IBM Content Navigator users) When opening a two-columns property layout with a checkbox is set as the last property, there is a unnecessary scroll bar shown on the layout. IO25553 (IBM FileNet Content Manager users) When viewing documents that have text annotations with plain text injected from outside of ICN, text annotations are displayed as blank. With this fix, text annotations are displayed. IO25570 (IBM Content Navigator users) When opening or previewing a document in Internet Explorer, the viewer window goes to the background intermittently. With this fix, the viewer window always comes to the foreground when a document is opened or previewed. IO25579 (IBM Content Manager users) When previewing documents with multiple parts in an environment with load balancing, an error occurs. With this fix, documents are previewed without an error. IO25581 (IBM Content Manager users) After reindexing an item, the item is not removed from an auto foldering folder. This happens when a plugin is used to set the target repository's configuration parameter, keepInAutoFolder, to the value false. With this fix, the issue is resolved. IO25583 (IBM Content Manager OnDemand users) The Download as PDF option is disabled for AFP documents when a IBM Content Manager OnDemand SSO plugin is being used. With this fix, the Download As PDF option is not disabled. IO25586 (IBM Content Manager users) When a user downloads a document as original, the file is downloaded with a .bin or .dat file extension or without the expected extension. With this fix, the document is downloaded with the expected file extension. IO25588 (IBM Content Manager Filenet users) An error occurs when trying to update the teamspace membership if one of the current users have been removed from LDAP. With this fix the error does not occur. IO25589 (IBM Content Navigator for Microsoft Office users) When closing and edited Excel spreadsheet the user is not getting the standard save prompt with the NMO addon installed. With this fix the user will now get the save prompt when closing an edited Excel spreadsheet when NMO addon is installed. IO25601 (IBM Content Manager OnDemand users) With ODWEK version 9.5.0.3 and later, if a user generated a link to a document, the link contained a doc id which prevented the link from being used to open the document by other users. With this fix, this issue is resolved. This fix requires ODWEK 9.5.0.10/10.1.0.2 or later. IO25620 (IBM FileNet Content Manager users) When using the New Document from the Search Dialog the user is not prompted to select an entry template, even though the desktop settings require the use of an entry template. With this fix, the user is now prompted for an entry template. IO25662 (IBM Content Manager OnDemand users) When working with cross-repository search results, the Document Info pane does not always display the properties of the selected document. With this fix, the Document Info pane shows the properties of the selected document. IO25696 (IBM Content Manager OnDemand users) When adding a search to favorites, the name does not include the description of the search. With this fix, the favorite's name includes the name and description of the search. IO25709 (IBM Content Navigator users) Documents cannot be copied from one folder to another using drag-and-drop. With this fix, documents can be copied from one folder to another using drag-and-drop. IO25743 (IBM Content Navigator for Microsoft users) A document's association with an entry template is lost after modifying properties on the document, if the document is using EDS. With this fix the entry template association is not lost.