Title: IBM Why do certificates have an expiration date? (SCI97674) - United States

Text:
STERLINGPRI TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 Why do certificates have an expiration date? (SCI97674) 

ANSWER
Digital certificates are breakable and are only considered to be secure for a limited period of time.? As of 2006, a? certificate based on? the standard? 1024 bit encryption string is only considered to be secure for 1-2 years and so certificates should expire and be replaced after no more than 2 years. Note 

Digital certificates are a security tool, used to encrypt data so that only authorized people may obtain access.


A certificate is based on public key encryption.? A "public key" is distributed to users, who can then use it to encrypt data such that only an authorized recipient can decrypt and read the data.? The recipient has the "private key" which is required to decrypt the data.


Public key encryption certificates encrypt data based on a pair of large prime numbers.? The public key is made from the two numbers multiplied together.? If the numbers are sufficiently large, then it will take a computer a long time to determine the factors, or the original prime numbers.? The factors are required in order to decrypt the data.


However, the factors for any product of two prime numbers can be determined in time by a computer.? The larger the factors, the longer will be required to determine the original values.? The more powerful the computer, the more quickly the factors can be determined.


Generally speaking, as of 2006, a 512 bit encryption string is considered easily breakable by any desktop computer, within a matter of hours or less.? A 1024 bit encryption string is considered to be secure for a year or two.? A 2048 bit encryption string is considered to be secure for a long time based on the capabilities of current computers but 2048 bit encryption is not supported by all software packages.? Given the continuing expanding capabilities of computers, it is clearly important to continue to improve the security of encryption methods as well.? Currently, though, 1024 bit encryption is the standard used in business security.

 

HISTORICAL NUMBER
 PRI25371 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 

Fact


Gentran Integration Suite
All Releases 
SCI97674


Goal


FAQ: Why do certificates have an expiration date?