Title: IBM An explanation of the different time-outs in ClearQuest - United States

Text:
1147129; 139383284; CQ; ClearQuest; timeouts; session; license; database; time out TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What are the different time-outs to consider with IBM® Rational® ClearQuest®? 

ANSWER
Below are the various time-outs in ClearQuest: 







License time out 

Database time out (Designer) 

Web time out (session timeout in IIS) 

Web login timeout (edit web settings) 

DBWin32: Using login locking scheme 0; timeout = 600000 ms 



 1. License time out:
    
    The timing of the returning of licenses differs somewhat by type of license and client being used. 
    
    Node-lock licenses are only available for the desktop that they are installed on and are always available on that desktop. 
    
    Keys for floating licenses which are used by native Windows clients are returned (checked back in) to the FLEXlm license server when the client exits ClearQuest. 
    
    Keys for web licenses which are used for full access web clients are returned to the FLEXlm license server in either of two cases; if the user logs out or if there is a period of 120 minutes of no activity, in which case the license is automatically returned.
    
    Limited access web clients are not licensed so no keys are checked out or returned.
    
    In all cases, returned license keys are immediately available for use by the same or another user (there is no linger).
     Back to top 
    
    
 2. Database time out:
    When you create a new user db in Designer > Database > New Database, one of the dialogs asks you to specify the timeout and poll intervals. 
    
    The db timeout parameter specifies the interval of inactivity that must elapse before any db connection is closed. The poll interval then specifies the frequency that CQ checks for an expired timeout interval. The timeout interval restarts after every pause in GUI activity in the CQ client. When
    another activity is performed (keystroke, scroll, run query, etc.), the timeout timer is reset to its full value (the value specified in the timeout interval parameter).
    
    Even if the activity timeout timer has expired, the db connection will not be closed until the expiration is detected by a poll. The poll occurs every so often, given by the poll interval parameter.
    
    Examples:
    
    timeout interval = 300 (5 min)
    poll interval = 1800 (30 min)
    
    Assume that a poll occurs at the start of the timeout timer. If there is no activity for 5 min, the timeout timer will expire, but the db connection will not be closed for another 25 min, until the next poll occurs (assuming that the CQ client remains idle for another 25 minutes).
    
    timeout interval = 300 (5 min)
    poll interval = 60 (1 min)
    
    Say there is no activity for 4.5 minutes, and a poll occurred with 30 seconds left on the timeout timer. The db connection will be closed at the next poll, which will occur 30 seconds after the timer expires (assuming there is no more activity).
    
    The polls occur at regular intervals, from when the db is opened. The timeout timer resets pretty much with every keystroke, and continues only if there is no activity. 
    
    The poll interval plus the timeout interval is the maximum idle period that can occur (allowing for a few milliseconds of instruction granularity, e.g., poll occurs just before the timer expiration, and next poll occurs one poll interval later).
    
    If the poll interval is set to 0, the db connection will never be closed by CQ, and will remain open until it is manually closed by the user (File > Close Database).
     Back to top 
    
    
    
 3. Web time out:
    Specifies the length of time ASP will allow a script to run. If the script does not finish running by the end of the timeout period, ASP stops the script and writes an event to the Windows NT event log. You can set the timeout period to a value between 1 and 2147483647. 
    
    The Web Session Timeout defaults to 20 minutes.
    
    The ASP timeout defaults to 90 seconds, and terminates the web request if ASP page execution exceeds this timeout. 
    
    These are IIS settings, not CQ-specific settings.
     Back to top 
    
    
 4. Web login timeout
    
    Starts after put in login and password, and click ok. Default is 15000 ms or 15 seconds. Recommended value for this is 600,000 ms or 10 minutes. 
     Back to top 
    
    
 5. DBWin32: Using login locking scheme 0; timeout = 600000 ms:
    The "Using login locking scheme 0; timeout = 600000 ms" output is related to the "heartbeat" polling that ClearQuest does when checking that the database is up and running. This shows up when a customer's database timeout value is not long enough and polling responses time out when ClearQuest polls the database to make sure the database isn't down.
    
    Setting the database timeouts to zero eliminates these messages from the DbWin32 log.


 Back to top 

 









Cross Reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Software Development Rational ClearQuest Licensing 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 139383284