Title: IBM How to change Microsoft Windows Active Directory Domain controller within a FileNet 5.2.1 P8 Domain? - United States

Text:
ACCE; FileNet 5.2.1 TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 The current Microsoft Windows Active Directory Domain Controller is being changed in our FileNet P8 Domain due to harware change. The new Domain Controller will be in the SAME Windows Domain as the previous Domain Controller. What are the steps to change the Domain Controller especially for FileNet 5.2.1 and later so the P8 environment remains active? 

CAUSE
Hardware change for IT requirements

ANSWER
If you current FileNet version is previous version 5.2.0 , 5.1 or 4.5, please refer the following technote: 

 How is a Microsoft Windows Active Directory Domain controller changed in a FileNet P8 Domain?
http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21380149 [http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21380149] 

Windows LDAP users and groups consideration:

1) To migrate from one Active Directory server to another Active Directory server you need to verify all users and groups are migrated from the old Active Directory server to the new Active Directory server. This is essential as all the user and group security authorization is based on the SID of the user or group. If the new domain controller remains in the same domain as the previous domain controller the SID's will be maintained between the two domain controllers. 

2) If the new domain controller is created in a different Windows Domain the user SID's will not be maintain, even if the same user and group names are created in the new Active Directory server environment, P8 will not be able to authorize the user or group as the user and group SID's will not be the same, unless you can put original SID into these new ID's SIDHistory attribute.

After migrating the users and groups to the new domain controller the following steps must be taken prior to switching from the old Domain Controller to the new Domain Controller:

1. The Active Directory Server's host name will need to be changed in the Application Server used to authenticate users. For a instance, for WebSphere Application Server, you need to check LDAP configuration at Global Security, make sure LDAP server host name change accordingly.

2. Log into Administrative Console for Content Platform Engine (ACCE) with FileNet administrator

3. Click on the FileNet Domain 

4. Click on the Directory Configuration Tab

5. Click the LDAP entry

6. Modify the properties, change the Directory Server Host to the new LDAP server's host, save the change.

7. After making these changes log out of ACCE and Save the changes in your Application Server, 

8. Switch to the new Domain Controller.

9. Restart Application Server which hosts FileNet Content Engine Application.