Title: IBM Process instances from business process definitions (BPD) of toolkits are not taken into account in the Installed Apps view of the Process Admin Console for IBM Business Process Manager (BPM) - United States

Text:
Toolkit; BPD; Business Process Definition; Process Admin Console; Installed Apps; Instance TECHNOTE (TROUBLESHOOTING)

PROBLEM(ABSTRACT)
 Process instances that originate in business process definitions of toolkits are excluded from the Installed Apps view of the Process Admin Console. Consequently, migrating these instances is not possible. 

SYMPTOM
The following screen shot shows the Installed Apps view of the Process Admin Console:


[/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21680819&aid=1] [/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21680819&aid=1]


This view shows the list of process application snapshots that are installed on the Process Server or Process Center server. The number of currently running instances is displayed for each business process definition. 

The number of instances is explicitly addressed to instances coming from business process definitions of process applications. Process instances that originate in business process definitions of toolkits are not taken into account even though the toolkits are included in process applications. This situation makes it impossible to migrate these instances. 

Note: This issue is valid for the Installed Apps view only. The Process Inspector view shows all of the instances properly.


CAUSE
This issue has been identified as a product defect under APAR JR50141


RESOLVING THE PROBLEM
JR50141 [http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg1JR50141] solves this issue for all new process instances. Process instances that existed before the fix installation are not repaired. 

 

Note: On a process server, everything gets imported or deployed as a process application and toolkits are sub-components of them. Only instances from process applications are listed in the Installed Apps view. Thus, this view does not track toolkit instances that are not added to a process application. Furthermore, it is required that you start the toolkit instance from a named snapshot of an active process application to get the instance visualized in the Installed Apps view.

 


Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Business Integration IBM Business Process Manager Standard Business Process Definition (BPD) AIX, Linux, Linux zSeries, Solaris, Windows 8.5.0.1, 8.5, 8.0.1.2 Business Integration IBM Business Process Manager Express Business Process Definition (BPD) Linux, Windows 8.5.0.1, 8.5, 8.0.1.2 
PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 BPM