Title: IBM The purpose of the Priority setting on a Provisioning Policy. - United States

Text:
Priority provisioning policy attribute ITIM TIM ISIM SIM TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 There are multiple Provisioning Policies that contain the same Service Entitlement. What happens if a user is added and they meet the criteria of more than one Provisioning Policy Membership? 

ANSWER
"Priority is the default conflict resolution mechanism for single-valued service parameters." The Priority setting appears on the General tab of the Provisioning Policy and is defined by a numeric value, the lower the number the higher the priority of the Provisioning Policy. The Priority field will accept any number between 1 (highest priority) and 2,000,000,000 plus (lowest priority). 

The first and most obvious use of the Provisioning Policy's Priority is to determine which policy takes precedence when there are multiple policies managing the same service. "Priority determines which provisioning policy takes precedence if a person has multiple provisioning policies for the same target managed service. The Provisioning Policy with the lowest policy number (i.e. 1) will take precedence."


The Priority setting may also affect which value will be applied to an attribute when Policy Joining takes effect. If two or more policies contain the same service, and a value for the same attribute is to be added/updated ITIM will use the policy's priority to determine which attribute to use. If the conflicting policies have the same priority, the first policy found by the system will be used.

The Priority setting can also come into play with the use of Service Selection Policies. "If two or more Service Selection Policies are defined with the same service profile, the policy with the higher priority takes precedence. If two or more Service Selection Policies have the same priority, the Provisioning Policy Join Directives determine which Service Selection Policy to use.

The Priority setting on the Provisioning Policy is also related to the Priority Join Directive Type. "The PRIORITY join directive type applies the provisioning policy with the higher priority."

*Note - Join Directive Rules take precedence over Provisioning Policy priority.

For more details and examples on the use of Priority see the Tivoli Identity Manager Policy and Organization Administration Guide.

 

PRODUCT ALIAS/SYNONYM
 ITIM TIM ISIM SIM enrole