Title: IBM No history for Transaction Availability Historical Summary workspace - United States

Text:
Transaction Availability Historical Summary; historical data; 71RRT-RPTWV; 71CRT-WV TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 What do you need to do to display historical data in the Transaction Availability Historical Summary workspace? 

ANSWER

ITCAM for Transactions 7.1 and later provides a Transaction Availability Historical Summary workspace for the Robotic Response Time (RRT) and Client Response Time (CRT) agents. 

In spite of its name, the Transaction Availability Historical Summary workspace does not display historical data.

The workspace displays a bar graph showing the percentage of times the transaction failed (red), performed slowly (yellow), or performed as expected (green). When you hover over a bar, the date and percentage of availability is displayed for that bar. The graph also shows the date and time that information was collected. Each bar is linked to other relevant workspaces, and the link is not affected by the time you choose on the bar. 

Scenario Recreation for RRT Agent

1) Configure all RRT historical metrics except for "Over Time" metrics such as RRT Transaction Over Time. Configure hourly summarization and pruning. Set data retention: Hourly and Detailed (2 days), Daily (2 days), Weekly (7 days). Allow historical data to accumulate for at least 48 hours. Note that the "Over Time" metrics are no longer supported in starting in ITCAM for Transactions 7.2. 

2) Navigate to Robotic Response Time > Transactions in the Navigator tree. The following workspaces display: 

Transaction Current Status Details 
Transaction Availability Historical Summary 

By default, the Transaction Current Status Details workspace displays the current real-time data in table format. The Transaction Availability Historical Summary graphs the response-time data for the same transactions and time interval. 

3) Select the Set Historical Navigation Mode button in the TEP toolbar. Select Last 12 hours. 

The last 12 hours of transaction data displays in the table workspace, but the corresponding graphic workspace is empty. The following messages display at the bottom of the graphic workspace: 

KFWITM491W Historical data not available for this view. 
KFWITM492W Query is unable to utilize time span filter. 

Select the last 2 hours of historical data. Observe same behavior. 

4) Reset Set Historical Navigation Mode to real time. The table workspace and graphic workspace are populated again. 

5) Click the Show View Bars button in the graphic workspace toolbar. An Add Monitored Baseline button displays with a red horizontal line through it, but the Historical icon does not display. 

6) Click the Show View Bars button in the table workspace toolbar. Select last 12 hours of data for the table workspace. The data displays OK. 


Solution

The Transaction Availability Historical Summary workspace is working as designed. Because the workspace uses advanced options (Sort By and Last), the workspace does not display historical data. 

Starting in ITM 6.2.1, workspaces that use advanced options are not eligible for historical use. These advanced options include Sort By, Group By, First, and Last. 

If you right-click the Transaction Availability Historical Summary pane and select Properties, you see the query: 

(Origin Node == $NODE$ AND Application == $T6APPLICATIN$) 
ROWS: LAST(100) 
SORT BY: Rank (Ascending) 

The properties for the Transaction Current Status Details workspace do not use these advanced options.




Cross reference information Segment Product Component Platform Version Edition Systems and Asset Management Tivoli Composite Application Manager for Transactions ITCAM TRANSACT CRT 5724S79CL v710 Linux, Windows All Editions 
HISTORICAL NUMBER
 08327.999.706