Title: IBM Tivoli Netcool/Impact: How can I use OMNIbus as the user repository for Impact? - United States

Text:
OMNIbus user repository for Impact TECHNOTE (FAQ)

QUESTION
 How can I use OMNIbus as the user repository for Netcool/Impact? 

CAUSE
Netcool/Impact is not configured to use OMNIbus as the user repository.

ANSWER
You can configure Netcool/Impact so that OMNIbus is used as the user repository for a Netcool/Impact server. 

The user repository is selected when you install Netcool/Impact. If you want to configure and alternative user repository, you must do an advanced installation and choose File Registry as your user repository. You can then configure an alternative user repository after the installation is finished.

Proceed as follows:

1. Run the utility script. 
If you use a UNIX system, run the 'confvmm4ncos_full.sh' script. If you use a Windows system, run the 'confvmm4ncos_full.bat' script. The script is in the $IMPACT_HOME/tipv2/bin directory. Enter the following
parameters:

Table 1. Parameters for user registry utility script 

Parameter Description wasdir The root directory location of the server
installation (equivalent to $IMPACT_HOME) profile TIPProfile for a GUI Server server or
ImpactProfile for an Impact Server cell TIPCell for a GUI Server server or
ImpactCell for an Impact Server server username OMNIbus user name to connect to
OMNIbus with (for example, root) password Password for the specified user name (if you
specify a null or empty password, enter two
double quotation marks [""]) host1 Host name of the OMNIbus server (the host
name of the primary host if you are using a
failover environment) port1 Port number (for example, 4100; this number
is the port number of the primary server if
you are using a failover environment) host2 This parameter is optional. Host name of a
backup OMNIbus server if you are using a
failover environment port2 This parameter is optional. Port number of a
backup OMNIbus server if you are using a
failover environment Realm This parameter is optional. The authentication realm to configure. The default value is defaultWIMFileBasedRealm. 
2. Restart the server. 

3. Verify that the GUI Server is communicating correctly with the OMNIbus server. 
a. Log in to the Tivoli® Integrated Portal as an administrator. 
b. Click Users and groups, then click Manage users. 
c. Click Search. The users that are defined in the OMNIbus repository are 
displayed in the list of users that is returned. The value for the Base entry 
for the default parent field for OMNIbus users is o=netcoolObjectServerRepository. 

4. Verify that the Impact Server is communicating correctly with the Omnibus server. 
a. Use a telnet application to connect to the command port of the Impact Server. The default port for the Impact Server is 2000. 
b. Use an Omnibus user to log in to the Impact Server. 
c. Enter quit (); to exit the utility.